Net Zero
Strategy: Build
Back Greener
October 2021

Net Zero
Strategy: Build
Back Greener

Presented to Parliament pursuant to Section 14
of the Climate Change Act 2008

© Crown copyright 2021
This publication is licensed under the terms of the Open Government Licence v3.0 except where
otherwise stated. To view this licence,
visit nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3.
Where we have identified any third party copyright information you will need to obtain permission
from the copyright holders concerned.
This publication is available at www.gov.uk/official-documents.
Any enquiries regarding this publication should be sent to us at: enquiries@beis.gov.uk
ISBN 978-1-5286-2938-6
E02678428

10/21

Printed on paper containing 75% recycled fibre content minimum
Printed in the UK by HH Associates Ltd. on behalf of the Controller of
Her Majesty’s Stationery Office

Contents

Contents
Forewords6
Foreword from the Prime Minister
Foreword from the Secretary of State for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy
Executive Summary
What is net zero and why do we need to act? 
Why should the UK act first?
Endnotes

8
10
12
14
15
34

Chapter 1 Why Net Zero
Levelling up the country, ending our domestic contribution to climate change, and
leading the world to a greener, more sustainable future
38
Endnotes
56
Chapter 2 The Journey to Net Zero
Endnotes

90

Chapter 3 Reducing Emissions across the Economy
3i. Power
3ii. Fuel Supply and Hydrogen
3iii. Industry
3iv. Heat & Buildings
3v. Transport
3vi. Natural Resources, Waste & F-Gases
3vii. Greenhouse Gas Removals
Endnotes

94
107
120
135
152
167
184
197

Chapter 4 Supporting the Transition across the Economy
4i. Innovation for net zero
4ii. Green Investment
4iii. Green Jobs, Skills, and Industries
4iv. Embedding Net Zero in Government
4v. Local Climate Action 
4vi. Empowering the Public and Business to Make Green Choices
4vii. International Leadership and Collaboration
Endnotes
Technical Annex
Technical Annex
Endnotes
Climate Science Annex
Climate Science Annex
Endnotes

206
216
229
248
260
273
284
298
304
306
351
360
362
366
5

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Forewords

7

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Foreword from the Prime Minister
Over the last three decades we have already
reduced our emissions by 44 per cent - while
growing our economy by over 75 per cent –
and this strategy sets out our plan for going
the rest of the way. We will meet the global
climate emergency but not with panicked,
short-term or self-destructive measures as
some have urged. Instead we will unleash the
unique creative power of capitalism to drive
the innovation that will bring down the costs
of going green, so we make net zero a net
win for people, for industry, for the UK and for
the planet.

Our strategy for net zero is to lead the world
in ending our contribution to climate change,
while turning this mission into the greatest
opportunity for jobs and prosperity for our
country since the industrial revolution.
Removing dirty fossil fuels from the global
economy will lead to the creation of vast
new global industries from offshore wind to
electric vehicles and carbon capture and
storage. By moving first and making the
United Kingdom the birthplace of the Green
Industrial Revolution we are building a defining
competitive edge. Through our Ten Point Plan
we have already attracted over £5.8 billion
of new inward investment in just over ten
months, and will create and support hundreds
of thousands of new high skilled, high wage
green jobs.

8

This strategy sets out how we will make
historic transitions to remove carbon from our
power, retire the internal combustion engine
from our vehicles and start to phase out gas
boilers from our homes. But it also shows
how we will do this fairly by making carbonfree alternatives cheaper. We will make sure
what you pay for green, clean electricity is
competitive with carbon-laden gas, and with
most of our electricity coming from the wind
farms of the North Sea or state-of-the-art
British nuclear reactors we will reduce our
vulnerability to sudden price rises caused by
fluctuating international fossil fuel markets.
The United Kingdom is not afraid to lead the
charge towards global net zero at COP26,
because history has never been made by
those who sit at the back of the class hoping
not to be called on. Indeed, as we set an
example to the world by showing that reaching
Net Zero is entirely possible, so the likes of
China and Russia are following our lead with
their own net zero targets, as prices tumble
and green tech becomes the global norm.

Foreword from the Prime Minister
For years, going green was inextricably bound
up with a sense that we have to sacrifice the
things we love. But this strategy shows how
we can build back greener, without so much
as a hair shirt in sight. In 2050, we will still
be driving cars, flying planes and heating our
homes, but our cars will be electric gliding
silently around our cities, our planes will be
zero emission allowing us to fly guilt-free, and
our homes will be heated by cheap reliable
power drawn from the winds of the North
Sea. And everywhere you look, in every part
of our United Kingdom, there will be jobs.
Good jobs, green jobs, well-paid jobs, levelling
up our country while squashing down our
carbon emissions.
That is the clean and prosperous future that
awaits every one of us as the UK leads the
world in the race to net zero.
The Rt Hon Boris Johnson MP
Prime Minister

9

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Foreword from the Secretary of
State for Business, Energy
& Industrial Strategy
The UK has already taken bold steps towards
net zero, including bringing forward the end
of sales of new petrol and diesel cars to
2030. We have committed over £12 billion
of domestic green investment since March
2020, and have doubled our International
Climate Finance commitment to £11.6 billion
between 2021-2025.

Now is the time the world needs to go further
and faster to tackle climate change. The UK is
stepping up to that challenge. Here we set out
our ambitious strategy – the first of its kind in
the world of a major economy - to create new
jobs, develop new industries with innovative
new technologies and become a more energy
secure nation with clean green British energy.
At the same time we will reduce greenhouse
gas emissions across the economy to reach
net zero by 2050.

10

This Strategy sets out the next steps we
will take to cut our emissions, seize green
economic opportunities, and leverage further
private investment into net zero. The policies
and spending brought forward in the Net Zero
Strategy mean that since the Ten Point Plan
we have mobilised over £26 billion of
government capital investment for the green
industrial revolution. Along with regulations,
this will support 190,000 jobs by 2025, and
440,000 jobs by 2030, and leverage up to
£90 billion of private investment by 2030.
This will put us on an ambitious path to meet
our Sixth Carbon Budget and our Nationally
Determined Contribution, cutting emissions
by at least 68% by 2030 on 1990 levels, and
reaching net zero by 2050.
We know economic growth and reducing
emissions can go hand-in-hand. As
we continue to build back better from
the COVID-19 pandemic, we will fuel a
Green Industrial Revolution, creating jobs
and business growth opportunities, and
establishing the UK as a global leader in the
technologies to tackle climate change. We
will deliver the commitments in the Prime
Minister’s Ten Point Plan and Build Back
Better: our plan for growth, and go further to
build a resilient economy and level up the UK.

Foreword from the Secretary of State for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy
The changes will have wider benefits for
the public and businesses alike. We will all
enjoy cleaner air, increased biodiversity and
improved access to green spaces. We will
see greater efficiency in the way we travel
and heat our buildings, which will be better
protected from more extreme weather events.
We will also put consumers at the heart of
this transition, helping them make their homes
warmer, more efficient, and ensure that they
pay a fair, affordable prices for their energy.
But we cannot tackle climate change alone.
We will take a coordinated approach, working

across local and national government,
the Devolved Administrations, and with
businesses and civil society organisations. And
we will make it easier and fairer for individuals,
businesses and households to decarbonise,
so that our whole society can work together to
reduce emissions. This strategy demonstrates
how the UK is leading by example, with a clear
plan for the future.
The Rt Hon Kwasi Kwarteng
Secretary of State for Business, Energy &
Industrial Strategy

11

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Executive
Summary

13

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

What is net zero and why do we
need to act?
From heating our homes to filling up our cars,
burning fossil fuels releases the greenhouses
gases that increase global temperatures.
We are already seeing the effects here in
the UK, with devastating floods in the West
Midlands in January and torrential downpours
submerging London Underground stations
earlier this summer.
People are rightly concerned, with the latest
IPCC report showing that if we fail to limit
global warming to 1.5°C above pre-industrial
levels, the floods and fires we have seen
around the world this year will get more
frequent and more fierce, crops will be more
likely to fail, and sea levels will rise driving
mass migration as millions are forced from
their homes. Above 1.5°C we risk reaching
climatic tipping points like the melting of arctic
permafrost – releasing millennia of stored
greenhouse gases – meaning we could lose
control of our climate for good.

14

But the good news is that there is, still, a path
to avoid catastrophic climate change. The
science could not be clearer: by the middle of
this century the world has to reduce emissions
to as close to zero as possible, with the small
amount of remaining emissions absorbed
through natural carbon sinks like forests,
and new technologies like carbon capture.
If we can achieve this, global emissions of
greenhouse gases will be ‘net zero’.
Delivering this requires urgent global action,
including ending coal fired power generation,
retiring petrol and diesel engines from all cars,
and halting deforestation. These are the steps
that the UK is calling for at COP26, the global
climate change talks in Glasgow next month.

Executive Summary

Why should the UK act first?
Since 1990 the UK has almost halved our
greenhouse gas emissions. Thanks to the
efforts of successive governments, we are
almost half-way to ending the UK’s domestic
contribution to man-made climate change,
and in 2019 the UK became the first major
economy in the world to legislate to finish the
job with a binding target to reach net zero
emissions by 2050.
We are proud to lead the world in ending
our own contribution to climate change,
not just because it is the right thing to do,
but because we are determined to seize
the unprecedented economic opportunity it
brings. We want to build back better from
the pandemic by building back greener and
levelling up our country with new high skilled,
high wage, sustainable jobs in every part of
our United Kingdom.
Removing dirty fossil fuels will require the
transformation of every sector of the global
economy. It means no longer burning fossil
fuels for power or heating; it means new ways
of making concrete, cement, steel; it means
the end of the petrol and diesel engine. These
changes are already beginning to happen.
Renewable energy is now the cheapest source
of power across two-thirds of the globe.
Clean, cheap power is already driving the
decarbonisation of heavy industry around the
world. Almost all major car companies are
now developing or producing zero emissions
vehicles as battery technology improves
and costs reduce.

The question is whether the new clean
machinery of the net zero future will be
“made elsewhere” or “made in Britain”. By
moving first, the UK can get ahead of the
pack and make the birthplace of the industrial
revolution the home of the new Green
Industrial Revolution.
Indeed, as we produce more of our own
electricity – from wind farms in the North Sea
and state-of-the-art British nuclear reactors
– families will be much better protected
from energy price spikes caused by volatile
international fossil fuel markets. At the same
time, by getting ahead of the curve in driving
down the costs of the latest clean technology,
more consumers will enjoy more efficient cars
and heating systems sooner. Furthermore,
by accelerating the deployment of cheap
renewable power, and rolling out further
energy efficiency measures, government
decarbonisation policies mean that the
average consumer energy bill in 2024 will likely
be cheaper than it would otherwise have been.
We have shown the world that green and
growth go hand in hand, and as a result other
countries are already following our lead with
their own net zero targets. When the UK was
confirmed as host of COP26, less than 30%
of global GDP was signed up to net zero or
carbon neutrality targets. Today, in part again
because of UK leadership, that figure is now
over 80% – and rising.

15

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

The Ten Point Plan for a Green
Industrial Revolution
Last year, the government kick-started its
mission to get ahead of the pack, by setting
out a Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial
Revolution. Our ambition was to create the
conditions for the private sector to invest with
confidence, unleashing the unique creativity
of capitalism to generate and grow new
green industries.
We mobilised £12 billion of government
investment, shared some of the risks of
pioneering new industries, and began to
introduce regulations to assure industry of the
future demand for green products – such as
through our decision to end the sale of new
petrol and diesel cars by 2030. We have also
invested in the skills the British workforce will

need for these new high wage green jobs,
though our Lifetime Skills Guarantee, and we
are helping investors to access capital for
green projects by making the City of London
the global centre of Green Finance.
At the Global Investment Summit in October
2021, the Prime Minister announced a
package of 18 deals worth £9.7 billion that will
support green growth and create an estimated
30,000 UK jobs. This is on top of the £5.8
billion already committed for sustainable
projects since the Prime Minister launched his
Ten Point Plan in November 2020. Now we
need to build on this progress with a strategy
to take us to net zero by 2050.

Our Strategy for Net Zero
Since 1990 the UK has reduced our
greenhouse gas emissions by 44%, while
growing our economy by over 75%. This
strategy sets out this Government’s longterm plan to finish the job and end the UK’s
domestic contribution to man-made climate
change by 2050.
Although every study shows that the costs of
inaction on climate are far greater, there will, of
course, be costs to the investments needed
to make this transition happen. So we will
approach these with four key principles:
1. We will work with the grain of consumer
choice: no one will be required to rip out their
existing boiler or scrap their current car
2. We will ensure the biggest polluters
pay the most for the transition through
fair carbon pricing

16

3. We will ensure that the most vulnerable
are protected through Government support
in the form of energy bill discounts, energy
efficiency upgrades, and more
4. We will work with businesses to
continue delivering deep cost reductions
in low carbon tech through support for
the latest state of the art kit to bring down
costs for consumers and deliver benefits
for businesses.
This strategy is a long-term plan for a
transition that will take place over the next
three decades. Many of the policies in the
strategy will be phased in over the next
decade or longer. Given our success in
decarbonisation to date we are confident
in our approach, but this strategy does not
intend to predict the exact shape of the British
economy in 2050 and neither should it.

Executive Summary
We are making the decisions that are needed
now to drive investment into new low carbon
technologies and as these develop and we
test our approach, we will make informed
decisions over how we scale to reach
net zero by 2050.

We have consistently underestimated how
quickly the costs of clean technology would
fall to date. There will be many more decisions
to take, and many more steps on the journey
to the finish line. But this strategy marks the
beginning of the end of the UK’s domestic
contribution to climate change.

What is in the Strategy?
Ending the UK’s contribution to climate
change is a long-term shift, and the Climate
Change Act breaks up this challenge
into bitesize chunks – five-year long
carbon budgets.
We have hit all of our carbon budgets to date.
This document sets out clear policies and
proposals for keeping us on track for our
coming carbon budgets, our ambitious
Nationally Determined Contribution
(NDC), and then sets out our vision for a
decarbonised economy in 2050.

The policies and spending brought forward
in the Net Zero Strategy mean that since
the Ten Point Plan, HMG has mobilised £26
billion of government capital investment for
the green industrial revolution. Along with
regulations, this will support up to 190,000
jobs by 2025, and up to 440,000 jobs by
2030, and leverage up to £90 billion of private
investment by 2030.

Whilst there are a range of ways in which net
zero could be achieved in the UK, we set out a
delivery pathway showing indicative emissions
reductions across sectors to meet our targets
up to the sixth carbon budget (2033-2037).
This is based on our current understanding of
each sector’s potential, and a whole system
view of where abatement is most effective. But
we must be adaptable over time, as innovation
will increase our understanding of the
challenges, bring forward new technologies
and drive down the costs of existing ones.

17

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Figure 1: Indicative delivery pathway to 2037 by sector

Source: BEIS Analysis (2021)

So this strategy sets out our plans for reducing
emissions from each sector of our economy,
while hoovering up any remaining emissions
with greenhouse gas removals – either
natural, like trees, or technological, using
carbon capture. This is an historic plan. Taken
together the transitions set out below for every
sector of the UK economy meets Carbon
Budgets 4 and 5, and puts us on the path for
Carbon Budget 6 – and ultimately on course
for net zero by 2050.

18

Net Zero Strategy: An overview
Executive Summary

Power

Power
Going further faster to decarbonise our electricity system

The policies and proposals for power in the Net Zero Strategy will …
Industry and fuel supply
carbon
future additional
Support forTransitioning
up to 59,000to a lowStart
to mobilise
Fully decarbonise our
jobs in 2024 and up to
120,000 jobs in 2030

public and private investment
of £150-270 billion, in line with
Heat and buildings our 2037 delivery pathway

power system by 2035

Decarbonising how we heat and power our buildings
The net zero economy will be underpinned
renewables, cutting edge new nuclear power
by cheap clean electricity, made in Britain. A
stations, and be underpinned by flexibility
clean, reliable power system is the foundation
including storage, gas with CCS, hydrogen
Transport
and ensure reliable power is always there at
of a productive
net zero economy as we
Setting
the
pace
for
greener,
better
transport
the flick of a switch. The transformation of the
electrify other sectors – so we will fully
power sector will bring high skill, high wage
decarbonise our power system by 2035,
job opportunities right across the UK.
subject to security of supply. Our power
system will consist
ofresources,
abundant, cheap
British
Natural
waste,
and fluorinated gases
Harnessing nature for net zero

Key policies:
•

Greenhouse
removalsentirely by clean electricity, subject to
By 2035
the UK willgas
be powered
Balancing
residual
emissions to achieve net zero
security of supply.

•

Secure a final investment decision on a large-scale nuclear plant by the end of this
Parliament, and launch a new £120 million Future Nuclear Enabling Fund, retaining
Innovation and investment
options for future nuclear technologies, including Small Modular Reactors, with a
Leading the world in innovation and green finance
number of potential sites including Wylfa in North Wales.

•

40GW of offshore wind by 2030, with more onshore, solar, and other renewables
– with a new approach to onshore and offshore electricity networks to incorporate
Green jobs, skills, and industries
new low carbon generation and demand in the most efficient manner that takes
Creating the skilled workforce to deliver net zero and putting UK
account of the needs of local communities like those in East Anglia.
supply chains at the forefront of global markets
Moving towards 1GW of floating offshore wind by 2030 to put us at the forefront of
this new technology that can utilise our North and Celtic Seas – backed by £380
Embedding in government and local action
million overall funding for our world-leading offshore wind sector.
Prioritising decarbonisation at every level of government
Deployment of new flexibility measures including storage to help smooth out
future price spikes.

•

•

Green choices
Moving towards a net zero society together

19

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Fuel Supply & Hydrogen
The policies and proposals for fuel supply and hydrogen in the Net Zero Strategy will…
Support up to 10,000 jobs in
2030 in fuel supply

Start to mobilise additional
public and private investment
of £20-30 billion, in line with
our 2037 delivery pathway

While electricity will be the primary source
of energy, we cannot rely on it alone. Many
sectors require low carbon energy, including
those where electrification is not a viable
option, making the supply of cleaner fuels
essential to achieving net zero. Building on
commitments in the North Sea Transition
Deal, we will significantly reduce emissions
from traditional oil and gas fuel supplies,

Deliver 5 GW of hydrogen
production capacity by 2030,
whilst halving emissions
from oil and gas

whilst scaling-up the production of low carbon
alternatives such as hydrogen and biofuels.
Current gas prices spikes underline the need
to get off hydrocarbons as quickly as possible,
but we will manage the transition in a way that
protects jobs and investment, uses existing
infrastructure, maintains security of supply,
and minimises environmental impacts.

Key policies:

20

•

We have set up the Industrial Decarbonisation and Hydrogen Revenue Support
(IDHRS) scheme to fund our new hydrogen and industrial carbon capture business
models. We will be providing up to £140 million to establish the scheme, including
up to £100 million to award contracts of up to 250MW of electrolytic hydrogen
production capacity in 2023 with further allocation in 2024.

•

Introducing a new climate compatibility checkpoint for future licensing on the UK
Continental Shelf and regulating the oil and gas sector in a way that minimises
greenhouse gases through the revised Oil and Gas Authority strategy.

Power
Going further faster to decarbonise our electricity system

Executive Summary

Industry

Industry and fuel supply
Transitioning to a low carbon future

The policies and proposals for industry in the Net Zero Strategy will…
Heat and buildings
heat
and power
our buildingsDeliver four carbon capture
Support upDecarbonising
to 54,000 jobs how
in we
Start
to mobilise
additional
2030 in industry

public and private investment
of at least £14 billion in
industry, in line with our 2037
Transport
delivery pathway
Setting the pace for greener,
better transport

usage and storage (CCUS)
clusters, capturing 20-30
MtCO2 across the economy,
including 6 MtCO2 of industrial
emissions, per year by 2030

CCUS and renewable energy will put our
We will decarbonise industry in line with
resources,
waste, and fluorinated
gases
our net zero Natural
goals whilst
simultaneously
industrial
‘SuperPlaces’ at the forefront of
Harnessing
nature
for
net
zero
transforming our industrial heartlands by
technological development – accelerating
decarbonisation in ‘clusters’, which account
attracting inward investment, future-proofing
for approximately half of the UK’s industrial
businesses, and securing high wage, high skill
emissions. These clusters could have
jobs. We will do this by supporting industry
Greenhouse gas removals
the opportunity to access support under
to switch to cleaner fuels; helping them
Balancing residual emissions to achieve net zero
improve their resource and energy efficiency,
government’s CCUS programme, which
and through fair carbon pricing to drive deep
includes the £1 billion CCS Infrastructure Fund
decarbonisation of industry. Growing new
and revenue support mechanisms.
and investment
industries in Innovation
low carbon hydrogen
alongside
Leading the world in innovation and green finance

Key policies:

•

•

•

Green jobs, skills, and industries
Following
the Phase
1 of the
Cluster Sequencing
theputting
Hynet UK
and East
Creating
the skilled
workforce
to deliver netprocess,
zero and
Coastsupply
Clusters,
will act
as economic
hubs
for markets
green jobs in line with our ambition
chains
at the
forefront of
global
to capture 20-30 MtCO2 per year by 2030. This puts Teesside and the Humber,
Merseyside and North Wales, along with the North East of Scotland as a reserve
Embedding
government
and local action
cluster,
among thein
potential
early SuperPlaces
which will be transformed over
Prioritising
the next
decade.decarbonisation at every level of government
Future-proofing industrial sectors, and the communities they employ through the
£315 million Industrial Energy Transformation Fund (IETF), (£289 million for England,
choicesIreland, £26 million for Scotland).
WalesGreen
and Northern
Moving towards a net zero society together
Incentivise cost-effective abatement in industry at the pace and scale required to
deliver net zero, through the UK ETS by consulting on a net zero consistent UK ETS
cap (in partnership with the Devolved Administrations).

21

Industry and fuel supply
Net Zero Strategy:
Build to
Back
Greener
Transitioning
a low
carbon future

Heat and Buildings

Heat and buildings
Decarbonising how we heat and power our buildings

The policies and proposals for heat and buildings in the Net Zero Strategy will…
Transport
the pace
better transport
Support upSetting
to 100,000
jobs nfor greener,
Start to mobilise
additional
Set a path to all new heating
the middle of the 2020s and
public and private investment
appliances in homes and
up to 175,000 in 2030
of approximately £200
workplaces from 2035
billion, inand
linefluorinated
with our 2037
Natural resources, waste,
gases being low carbon
delivery
pathway
Harnessing nature for net zero

works with the grain of consumer choice. But
Reaching net zero means tackling all sources
the costs of low carbon technology can fall
of emissions – and heating for homes and
gas aremovals
quickly – working with industry, we expect a
workspaces Greenhouse
makes up almost
third of all
Balancing
residual
emissions
to
achieve
zeroto be as cheap to buy and run as
heatnet
pump
UK carbon emissions. So we will improve
a gas boiler this decade. We want to reduce
the energy efficiency of housing and nonelectricity costs so when the current gas
domestic properties across the UK, ensuring
spike subsides we will look at options to shift
they require less
energy to
heat,
making them
Innovation
and
investment
or rebalance
cheaper to run
and
more
comfortable
to
live
Leading the world in innovation and green
finance energy levies (such as RO and
FiTs) and obligations (such ECO) away from
and work in while reducing our dependence
electricity to gas over this decade. This will
on imported energy. We are setting the
include looking at options to expand carbon
ambition that, by 2035, once costs have come
Green
jobs,
skills,
and
industries
pricing and remove costs from electricity bills
down, all new heating appliances installed in
Creating thewill
skilled
workforce to deliver
netensuring
zero andthat
putting
UK
while
we continue
to limit any
homes and workplaces
be low-carbon
supply
chains
at
the
forefront
of
global
markets
impact on bills overall. We know that in the
technologies, like electric heat pumps or
long run, green products are more efficient
hydrogen boilers. We will take a decision
and
cheaper, and we are putting fairness and
in 2026 on the
role of hydrogen
heating. and local
Embedding
in government
action
affordability
at the heart of our approach.
Crucially, thisPrioritising
will be a gradual
transition that
decarbonisation
at every level
of government

Key policies:

•

22

Green choices
Movingthat
towards
a netnozero
together
An ambition
by 2035,
newsociety
gas boilers
will be sold.

•

A new £450 million three-year Boiler Upgrade Scheme will see households offered
grants of up to £5,000 for low-carbon heating systems so they cost the same as a
gas boiler now.

•

A new £60 million Heat Pump Ready programme that will provide funding for
pioneering heat pump technologies and will support the government’s target of
600,000 installations a year by 2028.

•

Delivering cheaper electricity by rebalancing of policy costs from electricity bills to
gas bills this decade.

Executive Summary
•

Further funding for the Social Housing Decarbonisation Scheme and Home Upgrade
Grants, investing £1.75 billion. Additional funding of £1.425 billion for Public Sector
Decarbonisation, with the aim of reducing emissions from public sector buildings
by 75% by 2037.

•

Launching a Hydrogen Village trial to inform a decision on the role of hydrogen in the
heating system by 2026.

23

Heat and buildings
Net Zero Strategy:
Build Back
Decarbonising
how Greener
we heat and power our buildings

Transport

Transport
Setting the pace for greener, better transport

The policies and proposals for transport in the Net Zero Strategy will …
Natural resources, waste, and fluorinated gases
Harnessing nature for net zero
Support for up to 22,000
Start to mobilise additional
Remove all road emissions at
jobs in 2024 and up to
public and private investment
the tailpipe and kickstart zero
74,000 jobs in 2030
of around £220 billion,
emissions international travel
in line with our 2037
Greenhouse gas removals
delivery pathway
Balancing residual emissions
to achieve net zero
chargepoint provision. We will increase the
We will transform our cities and towns with
share of journeys taken by public transport,
greener, faster and more efficient transport.
Innovation
and
cycling and walking, electrifying more railway
Our streets will
be cleaner
andinvestment
people
Leading
the
world
in
innovation
and
green
lines, finance
investing £3 billion to transform bus
healthier from breathing cleaner air, walking
services and £2 billion for cycling. We will
and cycling more. Our zero emissions vehicle
build on our strong maritime heritage and the
(ZEV) mandate will guarantee greater number
of zero emission
vehicles
our roads,
Green
jobs, on
skills,
and industries success of the Clean Maritime Demonstration
Competition
to deliver
a more
unlocking theCreating
transformation
of
our
road
the skilled workforce
to deliver
net zero and
putting
UK ambitious multiyear
programme for the sector. Setting out
transport. Additional
fundingatwill
ourof global
supply chains
thesupport
forefront
markets
an ambitious position on SAF will set us on a
automotive sector to stay at the cutting edge
path to decarbonise this challenging sector.
and capture jobs of the future. Significant
Embedding
in
government
and
local
action
Accelerating
the decarbonisation of transport
new investment in vehicle grants and electric
Prioritising
decarbonisation
at
every
level
of government
will save
lives and significantly reduce noise,
vehicle infrastructure will ensure that we
making our urban centres more enjoyable
see even more green vans delivering our
places to live.
goods and big improvements in local public
Green choices
Moving towards a net zero society together

Key policies:

24

•

A zero emission vehicle mandate to improve consumer choice and ensure we
maximise the economic benefit from this transition by giving a clear signal to
investors. This will deliver on our 2030 commitment to end the sale of new
petrol and diesel cars, and 2035 commitment that all cars must be fully zero
emissions capable.

•

Further funding of £620 million for zero emission vehicle grants and EV
Infrastructure, including further funding for local EV Infrastructure, with a focus on
local on street residential charging.

•

Allocating a further £350 million of our up to £1 billion Automotive Transformation
Fund (ATF) to support the electrification of UK vehicles and their supply chains.

•

Building on the success of our £20 million zero emission road freight trials, we will
expand these to trial three zero emission HGV technologies at scale on UK roads to
determine their operational benefits, as well as their infrastructure needs.

Executive Summary

•

£2 billion investment which will help enable half of journeys in towns and cities to be
cycled or walked by 2030.

•

£3 billion to create integrated bus networks, more frequent services and bus lanes
to speed journeys.

•

Transformation of local transport systems, with 4,000 new zero emission buses and
the infrastructure to support them, and a net zero rail network by 2050, with the
ambition to remove all diesel-only trains by 2040.

•

Building on the success of the Clean Maritime Demonstration Competition, we will
be extending this to a multi-year programme, delivering real-world demonstrations
and technology trials of clean maritime vessels and infrastructure to decarbonise
the maritime sector. This is part of our commitment to a UK Shipping Office for
Reducing Emissions.

•

Significant investment in rail electrification and city rapid transit systems.

•

Aim to become a world-leader in zero emission flight and kick-starting the
commercialisation of the UK sustainable aviation fuel so people can fly, and connect
without guilt. Our ambition is to enable delivery of 10% SAF by 2030 and will be
supporting UK industry with £180 million funding for the development of SAF plants.

25

Decarbonising how we heat and power our buildings

Transport
Net Zero Strategy:
Build Back Greener
Setting the pace for greener, better transport

Natural Resources, waste and
	
fluorinated gases
Natural resources, waste, and fluorinated gases
Harnessing nature for net zero

Greenhouse
gasfor
removals
The policies
and proposals
natural resources, waste, and fluorinated gases in the Net
Balancing
Zero Strategy
will… residual emissions to achieve net zero
New employment
Start to mobilise additional
opportunities across the UK.
public and private investment
Innovation and investment
Afforestation in England could of approximately £30
Leading the world in innovation and green finance
support up to 1,900 jobs in
billion, in line with our 2037
2024 and 2,000 jobs in 2030 delivery pathway

Treble woodland creation
rates in England, contributing
to the UK’s overall target of
increasing planting rates to
30,000 hectares per year by
the end of this Parliament

Green jobs, skills, and industries
Creating
skilled
workforce
to deliver
net
putting
Halting climate
changethe
and
protecting
the natural
world
arezero
twoand
sides
of theUK
same coin, so we will
supply chains
at the forefront
global markets
restore our countryside
to reduce
emissions,ofsequester
carbon and build our resilience to climate
change at the same time. We will support farmers to implement a range of low carbon farming
practices that can help increase productivity and enable more efficient use of land, such as
Embedding in government and local action
through agroforestry. We will increase tree planting to sequester carbon, and protect and restore
Prioritising decarbonisation at every level of government
our peatlands. As part of reforms to the resources and waste system, we also will move towards
a circular economy, improve resource efficiency, and achieve near elimination of biodegradable
waste to landfill. We will continue to phase down the use of F-gases in line with domestic
regulations and
international
Green
choices commitments.
Moving towards a net zero society together

Key policies:

26

•

Supporting low-carbon farming and agricultural innovation through the Farming
Investment Fund and the Farming Innovation Programme to invest in equipment,
technology, and infrastructure to improve profitability, benefit the environment and
support emissions reductions.

•

We will boost the existing £640 million Nature for Climate Fund with a further £124
million of new money, ensuring total spend of more than £750 million by 2025 on
peat restoration, woodland creation and management – above and beyond what
was promised in the manifesto. This will enable more opportunities for farmers and
landowners to support Net Zero through land use change.

•

Restoring approximately 280,000 hectares of peat in England by 2050 and trebling
woodland creation rates in England, contributing to the UK’s overall target of
increasing planting rates to 30,000 hectares per year by the end of the Parliament.

•

£75 million on net zero related R&D across Natural Resources, Waste & F-gases, to
inform our pathway to 2037.

Executive Summary
•

To support our commitment to explore options for the near elimination of
biodegradable municipal waste to landfill from 2028, we are bringing forward £295
million of capital funding which will allow local authorities in England to prepare to
implement free separate food waste collections for all households from 2025.

27

Natural resources, waste, and fluorinated gases
Net Zero Strategy:
Buildnature
Backfor
Greener
Harnessing
net zero

Greenhouse Gas Removals
Greenhouse gas removals
Balancing residual emissions to achieve net zero

The policies and proposals for GGRs in the Net Zero Strategy will provide…
Innovation and investment
the world
innovation
and green
finance An ambition to deploy
New, highlyLeading
skilled, jobs
in our in Start
to mobilise
additional
industrial heartlands

public and private
at least 5 MtCO2/year of
investment of around £20
engineered GGRs by 2030.
billion,
in line with our 2037
Green jobs, skills, and
industries
delivery
pathway
Creating the skilled workforce
to deliver net zero and putting UK
supply chains at the forefront of global markets
Our most important step to achieving net zero
Government intervention in the short term
is to take ambitious decarbonisation measures
will support early commercial deployment of
Embedding
in government
action
GGRs,
with an ambition to move towards a
across society.
However, greenhouse
gas and local
Prioritising
decarbonisation
at
every
level
of
government
market-based framework for GGRs. This will
removals (GGRs) will also play a critical role
support our delivery of net zero emissions and
in balancing residual emissions from the
position us to export our skills and expertise,
hardest to decarbonise sectors such as
capitalising on economic opportunities for the
aviation, agriculture,
and heavy industry. Our
Green choices
innovation-led
approach
position
the
UK
as
a
UK and supporting the global shift to net zero.
Moving towards a net zero society together
global leader in this rapidly developing sector.

Key policies:

28

•

Delivering £100 million of investment in GGR innovation could enable further
deployment of GGRs, which in turn will leverage private investment and demand for
transferrable engineering expertise from the UK’s oil and gas sector.

•

Explore options for regulatory oversight to provide robust monitoring, reporting and
verification (MRV) of GGRs, following the recommendations of the BEIS-led MRV
Task & Finish Group involving experts from industry and academia.

Embedding in government and local action
Prioritising decarbonisation at every level of government

Green choices
Moving towards a net zero society together

Executive Summary

Supporting the transition with
	
cross-cutting action
We will maximise the opportunities of this
transition, and make sure we are geared
up to deliver these changes by also taking
cross-cutting action. As the host nation
for COP26 in Glasgow this year, we will
use our global platform to continue to urge
countries to set targets to get to net zero by
2050, and more ambitious 2030 emissions
reduction targets to get us there. We will
back innovation and our world-leading green
finance sector. We will support each stage of
the innovation chain to drive down costs and
bring through key technologies and ideas to
meet net zero. We will work with the private
sector to leverage private investment to
provide the finance needed, while providing
the conditions for green finance to flourish.

We will put consumers at the heart of the
transition and our goal is to make choosing
green options significantly easier, cheaper,
and more rewarding. We will back training
and skills, supporting workers to retrain and
upskill and build low carbon industries with
strong UK supply chains that are resilient to
changes. We will also take a place-based
approach to net zero, working with local
government to ensure that all local areas have
the capability and capacity for net zero delivery
as we level up the country. And Government
is leading the way – embedding climate into
our policy and spending decisions, increasing
the transparency of our progress on climate
goals, and providing funding to drive ambitious
emissions reductions in schools and hospitals.

Key policies:
•

Deliver at least £1.5 billion of funding to support net zero innovation projects.

•

Use the UK Infrastructure Bank (UKIB) to crowd in private finance, support more
than £40 billion of investment, and pull through low carbon technologies and
sectors to maturity and scale.

•

Introduce a new Sustainability Disclosures Regime, including mandatory climate
related financial disclosures and a UK green taxonomy.

•

Reform the skills system so that training providers, employers and learners are
incentivised and equipped to play their part in delivering the transition to net zero.

•

Publish an annual progress update against a set of key indicators for achieving our
climate goals.

29

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Delivering the Prime Minister’s Ten Point Plan
In the past year, we have already taken important action on climate change, delivering on the
commitments in the Prime Minister’s Ten Point Plan.
56,000 jobs have been protected and created over the last ten months, since the publication
of the Prime Minister’s Ten Point Plan and wider green agenda - with some already on line and
others set to come on line over the coming decade
We committed to…

Since then we have…

Point 1: Advancing Offshore
Wind, including:

– Supported manufacturers via government investment schemes. Six
manufacturers have already announced major investments in the UK
offshore wind sectors and delivering up to 3,600 jobs by 2030.

– 40GW of offshore wind
by 2030 including 1GW of
floating wind (wind turbines
generating electricity
in water depths)
– £160 million into modern
ports and manufacturing
infrastructure
– The Offshore
Transmission Network Review

– Built our Offshore Wind capacity to 10.5GW, enough in 2020 to power
4.5 trillion LED light bulbs. This increased our share of electricity
generated by Offshore Wind from 1% to 13% over the last decade.
– Kicked off the biggest-ever round of our flagship renewable energy
scheme for low carbon electricity (Contract for Difference) with £200
million for offshore wind projects and £24m for floating offshore wind.
– Launched a £17.5 million competition to support innovative floating
wind ideas from industry and joined the ORE Catapult’s FOW Centre of
Excellence, contributing £2 million.
– Leveraged over £1.5 billion investment into our offshore wind industry,
following the £160 million to upgrade ports and infrastructure.
– Published the Offshore Transmission Network Review, setting out two
initial policy consultations to move to a coordinated approach for both inflight and future offshore wind projects.

Point 2: Driving the Growth
of Low Carbon Hydrogen,
including:
– An ambition for 5GW of low
carbon hydrogen production
capacity by 2030
– £240 million Net
Zero Hydrogen Fund
– Hydrogen trials to test use of
hydrogen in heating

– Published the Hydrogen Strategy, setting out our comprehensive
approach to growing the UK hydrogen economy.
– Commenced an allocation process for electrolytic hydrogen in 2022 to
award up to 100MW of contracts in 2023 and up to 400MW of contracts
in 2024 and announcing a funding envelope in 2022 that will enable
us to award the first contracts to CCUS-enabled hydrogen from 2023
through the Cluster Sequencing process, to deliver up to 1GW of CCUSenabled hydrogen.
– Following our consultation on a proposed hydrogen business model,
design of the £240 million Net Zero Hydrogen Fund and on a UK low
carbon hydrogen standard.
– Invested £3 million to kick start the Tees Valley hydrogen transport hub,
which is building early collaborations and operational learning.
– Announced a £60 million competition to fund projects to develop
innovative low carbon hydrogen supply solutions.
– Started preparations for a hydrogen heating neighbourhood trial in
Levenmouth, Fife led by SGN following funding awards by Ofgem and
Scottish Government.

30

Executive Summary

We committed to…

Since then we have…

Point 3: Delivering New and
Advanced Nuclear Power,
including:

– Announced our aim to bring at least one large-scale nuclear project to the
point of Final Investment Decision by the end of this Parliament, subject
to value for money and all relevant approvals. Entered into negotiations
with the developer of Sizewell C power station in December 2020.

– Pursuing large-scale
nuclear projects, subject to
value for money
– Legislating for a new financing
model for nuclear projects

– Launched a Call for Evidence on Government’s preference to explore the
potential of High Temperature Gas Reactors (HTGRs) to enable an AMR
demonstration by the early 2030s.

– £385 million Advanced
Nuclear Fund to enable up
to £215 million into Small
Modular Reactors
– £170 million for a R&D
programme on Advanced
Modular Reactors
Point 4: Accelerating the Shift
to Zero Emission Vehicles,
including:
– End the sale of new pure
petrol and diesel cars and
vans by 2030 and consult on
phase out for diesel HGVs
– £1 billion to support
electrification of UK vehicles
and their supply chains
– £1.3 billion to accelerate
the roll-out of charging
infrastructure
– Publish a Green Paper in
2021 on the UK’s post-EU
emissions regulation

– Announced we will introduce a ZEV mandate to deliver our end of sales
dates for new petrol and diesel cars and vans.
– Announced funding for the UK’s first large-scale gigafactory as part of the
Automotive Transformation Fund. The investor has committed to creating
1,000 jobs which will be realised during the period to 2025/26 as the
facility is built and becomes operational.
– Secured an additional 950 jobs through other automotive projects, for a
total of 1,950 jobs to be realised through to 2025/26.
– Built on existing successful projects, such as the Advanced Propulsion
Centre - according to participating companies, APC projects agreed this
year will support up to 5,200 direct jobs.
– Seen increased demand for ZEVs – industry figures state that nearly one
in ten of all new cars sold so far this year in the UK is fully electric and
over 650,000 plug-in cars have been registered in the UK since 2010.
– For this financial year, committed £70 million to roll out home, on-street
and workplace chargepoints.
– 70% of motorway service areas now have plans to install at least 6 highpowered chargers by 2023.
– Announced the winners of the £20 million Zero Emission Road Freight
Trials – projects that will help to design and develop cost-effective, zero
emission HGVs and refuelling infrastructure.
– Consulted on the phase out of non-zero emission HGVs.

31

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

We committed to…

Since then we have…

Point 5: Green Public Transport,
Cycling and Walking, including:

– Launched the National Bus Strategy and a consultation on phase out of
new non-zero emission buses and the £120 million Zero Emission Bus
Regional Area (ZEBRA) scheme to support local transport authorities
outside London.

– £120 million to begin
introducing at least 4,000
zero emission buses
– Billions of pounds in
enhancements and renewals
of the rail network
– £5 billion to support buses,
cycling and walking
Point 6: Jet Zero and Green
Ships, including:
– A Jet Zero Council
– £15 million to
support production of
Sustainable Aviation Fuels
– £20 million for the
Clean Maritime
Demonstration Programme

– Supported Coventry to become UK’s first all-electric bus city, with £50
million to fund up to 300 electric buses and charging infrastructure.
– Committed £17.5 billion in the November 2020 Spending Review in
capital funding for renewals, upgrades, and enhancements of the existing
rail network up to 2024.
– Delivered more than 300 walking and cycling schemes.
– Consulted on our proposals for reaching net zero aviation by 2050
and following a consultation on a UK Sustainable Aviation Fuels (SAF)
mandate, confirmed our ambition for it to enable delivery of 10%
SAF by 2030 , and we will make £180 million available to support the
development of the UK SAF industry.
– Announced the shortlist for the £15 million Green Fuels, Green Skies
competition, to support UK pioneers in Sustainable Aviation Fuels.
– Co-invested £150 million per year through the Aerospace Technology
Institute to support greener aircraft technology like Rolls-Royce’s next gen
UltraFan jet engine which aims to cut emissions by 25% and ZeroAvia’s
zero-emission hydrogen propulsion system.
– Allocated up to £23 million of match-funding to 55 projects through the
Clean Maritime Demonstration Competition to support the development
of zero emission technologies and greener ports.

Point 7: Greener Buildings,
including:

– Supported approximately 45,000 jobs in greener buildings in the first year
since the Ten Point Plan was launched.1

– Ambition to install 600,000
heat pumps per year by 2028

– Announced that we will tighten Minimum Energy Efficiency Standards
to ensure that landlords can no longer let properties covered by the
Domestic Minimum Energy Efficiency Standards Regulations if they have
an EPC rating below E, unless they have a valid exemption in place.

– Energy efficiency funding,
including the Public Sector
Decarbonisation Scheme
and Social Housing
Decarbonisation Fund
– Strengthened energy
efficiency requirements for
private sector landlords

32

– Allocated £1 billion funds from the Public Sector Decarbonisation
Scheme, supporting up to 30,000 jobs.2
– Awarded £62 million to 19 projects in the Social Housing Decarbonisation
Fund Demonstrator, with over 2,300 homes in the process of
being improved.

Executive Summary

We committed to…

Since then we have…

Point 8: Investing in Carbon
Capture, Usage and Storage,
including

– We have set up the Industrial Decarbonisation and Hydrogen Revenue
Support (IDHRS) scheme, providing up to up to £140 million to fund our
new hydrogen and industrial carbon capture business models.

– Commitment for two industrial
clusters by mid 2020s, and
an aim for four sites by 2030,
capturing up to 10Mt CO2
emissions per year

– Announced £19.5 million of grant funding for projects developing novel
CCUS technology and processes that reduce the cost of deployment.

– £1 billion CCUS
Infrastructure Fund

– Published details of the design of funding mechanisms, including the
business model for CO2 transport and storage, industrial CCUS, power
CCUS, as well as the CCS Infrastructure Fund.

Point 9: Protecting Our Natural
Environment, including

– Supported an estimated 850 jobs in environmental protection
and enhancement.

– £5.2 billion for flood and
coastal defences

– Launched the floods investment programme that is on track to better
protect 336,000 properties from flooding.

– New National Parks and Areas
of Outstanding Natural Beauty

– Natural England has set out plans to start the process to designate
four new areas of outstanding natural beauty - Yorkshire Wolds AONB,
Cheshire Sandstone Ridge AONB, an extension to the Surrey Hills AONB,
and an extension to the Chilterns AONB.

– £40 million second
round for the Green
Recovery Challenge Fund
– Establish 10 long-term
Landscape Recovery projects
over the next four years

– Kicked off the process to decide the first carbon capture cluster locations
in our industrial heartlands.

– Announced 90 projects awarded grants under round 2 of the £80 million
Green Recovery Challenge Fund (GRCF). Across all 159 projects, the
GRCF is set to plant almost 1 million trees and create and retain up
to 2,500 jobs.
– Held three Landscape Recovery market engagement events and, subject
to feedback, we aim to open applications for the first wave of pilot
projects later this year.
– Launched several schemes under the Nature for Climate Fund to expand
our pipeline of tree planting and peatland restoration projects in England,
including the new England Woodland Creation Offer and Tree Production
Innovation Fund.

Point 10: Green Finance and
Innovation, including
– £1 billion Net Zero Innovation
Portfolio (NZIP), including
£100 million for Direct
Air Capture and other
Greenhouse Gas Removal
(GGR) technologies
– UK’s first
Sovereign Green Bond
– Green Jobs Taskforce

– Launched the Net Zero Innovation Portfoliow, providing funding for
low-carbon technologies and systems across the areas of the 10 Point
Plan, including:
– Up to £68 million across two competition streams for Longer Duration
Energy Storage Demonstration.
– Funding for the first phase of GGR studies, which could remove
between 100 and 1,000 tonnes of CO2e per year in 2025.
– Issued £10 billion Sovereign Green Bond, to raise money for green
government projects like zero-emission buses, offshore wind, and
decarbonising homes.
– Launched the Green Jobs Taskforce in November 2020, which reported
15 recommendations in July 2021.

33

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Endnotes
1

Estimate based on internal HMG analysis.

2

This figure is already included in the headline 45,000 figure for greener buildings.

34

Executive Summary

35

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Why Net Zero

1

Chapter

37

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Levelling up the country, ending
our domestic contribution to
climate change, and leading
the world to a greener, more
sustainable future
The case for action
1. We are at a crossroads in our history. As
we recover from the impact of the pandemic
on our lives and livelihoods, we know that
it will not be enough to go back to the way
things were before. The science is clear, we
know that human activity is changing our
climate and that this will have a devasting
impact on human lives, the economy, and the
natural world – ranging from the extinction
of some species and the melting of ice caps
to extreme weather patterns threatening our
homes, businesses, and communities.1 As
the latest report by the Intergovernmental

38

Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) shows,2
this is no longer a challenge for tomorrow:
we are already seeing the impacts today
with increased incidence of events such as
extreme heat, floods, and wildfires across the
globe. We need to act urgently and reduce
emissions globally to limit further global
warming. The landmark 2015 Paris Agreement
agreed to hold the increase in the global
average temperature to well below 2°C above
pre-industrial levels, and to pursue efforts to
limit it to 1.5°C.

Chapter 1 – Why Net Zero

The UK’s net zero target
The UK was the first major economy to create a legally binding target to
bring greenhouse gas emissions to net zero by 2050. This target was set
considering the latest scientific evidence and was recommended by the
Climate Change Committee (CCC), the UK’s independent climate advisory
body. The net zero target also responds to the overwhelming public support
for acting on climate change. In recent surveys of the UK public, 80% of
participants expressed concern about climate change.3
Government is committed to ambitious decarbonisation measures across
society. However, we know that this does not mean emissions will drop to
absolute zero by 2050 – we acknowledge that sectors such as industry,
agriculture, and aviation are difficult to decarbonise completely. Greenhouse
gas removals (GGR), like trees and carbon capture and storage technology,
are therefore essential to compensate for the residual emissions arising from
these hard to decarbonise sectors, so we can reach net zero by 2050.
2. The sooner we act on climate change
the lower the costs will be. Globally, the
costs of failing to get climate change under
control would far exceed the costs of bringing
greenhouse gas emissions down to net
zero. The Office for Budget Responsibility
concluded that there could be significant
fiscal benefits from early action to transition
to net zero, meaning the costs will be lower
than if we delay.4 Delaying action would
only serve to put future generations at risk
of crossing critical thresholds resulting in
severe and irreversible changes to the planet,
the environment, and human society. On
the other hand, early and ambitious action
would help protect lives and livelihoods, while
maximising the co-benefits for people, society,
the environment, and the economy.5 As part
of the transition to net zero emissions, we will
transform our energy system away from fossil
fuels to low carbon sources of energy, such as
renewable electricity generated in the UK. This
will ensure sustainable and affordable energy
supplies and protect consumers by reducing
our exposure to volatile international fossil fuel

markets which have caused the recent spike
in gas prices.
3. The UK has long led the way in tackling
climate change, and immediate action to
reduce emissions brings enormous economic
opportunities to revitalise our economy and
deliver on our priority to level up the country.
Across the globe, as governments, people and
businesses rise to this challenge, a growing
global green economy has the potential to
create millions of new jobs. We are uniquely
placed to seize this once-in-a generation
opportunity and deliver a transition to net zero
that has the potential to create thousands of
jobs in every part of the UK.
4. We must, therefore, build back better. Our
vision, building on the Prime Minister’s Ten
Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution, is
to level up our country with new green jobs,
end our contribution to climate change, and
reverse the decline of our natural environment,
leading the world to a greener, more
sustainable future.

39

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Plan for Growth and green
sector vision
This strategy sets out how we will build on
the Prime Minister’s Ten Point Plan with
our vision to create new jobs and net zero
industries as we meet our climate targets.
In turn, this will support levelling up the
country, and put the UK at the forefront of the
global green markets.
We are laying the foundations for businesses
to invest in the UK’s green economy, taking
action to ensure we have the right skills
to deliver a green industrial revolution and
committing to work with industry to develop
sector and supply chain action plans in areas
where the UK has an economic advantage.

40

Build Back Better: Our Plan for Growth
sets out the Government’s commitment to
supporting future growth sectors based on
the UK’s comparative advantage and growth
potential, and commits to publishing sector
visions across these sectors. This strategy
articulates our vision for the green economy.
We will build on this with more detail in further
Sector and Supply Chain Development Plans
– such as the CCUS supply chains roadmap
published earlier this year, and the Hydrogen
Sector Development Action Plan which we will
publish in 2022.

Chapter 1 – Why Net Zero

Driving a green industrial revolution and levelling up the UK
5. The UK has long proved that tackling
climate change and delivering economic
growth can go hand in hand. Between 1990
and 2019, we cut emissions faster than any
other G7 country, a 44% reduction.6 We
achieved this whilst growing our economy
by 78%.7 Our latest official estimates show
that 410,000 people work in the UK’s low

carbon economy and its supply chains across
the country, with an estimated turnover of
£42.6 billion in 2019.8 These numbers are
even higher once we account for the jobs
and economic activity supporting broader
environmental policies such as climate
adaptation and biodiversity.

Figure 2: UK vs Rest of G7 GDP and GHG Emissions9
200
180

Index (1900=100)

160

UK GDP +78%
Rest of G7 GDP +72%

140
120
100
80
60
40

Rest of G7 emissions -4%

UK emissions -44%

1990
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019

20

Source: The World Bank, UNFCCC National Inventory Submissions, ONS, BEIS Greenhouse Gas
Inventory.

6. As the world moves to tackle climate
change, new opportunities will arise for UK
companies in domestic and international
markets. Updated analysis, based on the BEIS
Energy Innovation Needs Assessment (EINA)
suggests key net zero aligned sectors in the
UK could contribute up to £60 billion of gross
value added (GVA) a year by 2050.10
7. We have immediate opportunities to
capitalise on our core strengths: the largest
market for offshore wind in the world, a
world-class oil and gas sector, and the

City of London is long established as a
leader in green finance.11 In the long term,
evidence from the Energy Innovation Needs
Assessment (2019) and subsequent analysis,
point to domestic and export opportunities
for the UK in electric vehicle technologies and
manufacturing, the next generation of offshore
wind (including new approaches such as
floating offshore wind), carbon capture, usage
and storage (CCUS), low carbon hydrogen,
smart energy systems and storage, and direct
air carbon capture and storage (DACCS).
41

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
8. The opportunities for British innovation,
expertise, and products will not just be
confined to these shores. The value of goods
and services exported by UK low carbon and
renewable energy businesses exceeds £7
billion.12 The net zero transition will create new
growth opportunities for UK based companies,
such as Livingstone based FoundOcean
and Trelleborg’s North West England based
operation, who won contracts with the
support of UK Export Finance (UKEF) to
supply Taiwan’s growing offshore wind market.
9. These opportunities show that net zero
and levelling up go hand in hand. Delivering
net zero allows us to boost living standards by
supporting jobs and attracting investment in
the green industries of the future, which can
be in areas that need this the most. Crucially,
delivering net zero also involves supporting
workers employed in high carbon industries
that will be affected by the transition, by giving
them the skills they need to make the most

of new opportunities in the green economy.
But the link between net zero and levelling
up is wider than just the economy, net zero
can deliver wider benefits for people and
communities across the UK by helping spread
opportunity and restore pride in place.
10. We are already taking action to make
the most of these opportunities. We have
embedded a net zero principle in our levelling
up funding initiatives, such as the Levelling
Up Fund and the Towns Fund, so that these
schemes can contribute to meeting our net
zero targets and help places to reduce their
carbon impacts. Later this year, we will publish
a Levelling Up White Paper. This will build on
the actions the government is already taking
to both deliver net zero and level up across
the country, including the ones set out in
this strategy, and set out new interventions
to improve livelihoods and drive economic
growth in all parts of the UK.

Maximising opportunities after leaving the EU
Following the UK’s departure from the European Union in January 2020 the UK now has
the flexibility to determine our own decarbonisation pathways to 2050, in a way that fully
utilises the unique strengths and opportunities of UK diplomacy, industry and innovation.
Since leaving the EU, the UK has built on our climate leadership, demonstrating an
independent and ambitious approach to meeting our 2050 target:

42

•

Setting an ambitious Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) under the Paris
Agreement, committing to the fastest rate of reducing emissions on 1990 levels of
any major economy.

•

Setting out ambitious plans with bold policy action across key sectors of the
economy, such as the Prime Minister’s Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial
Revolution, the Energy White Paper, North Sea Transition Deal, Industrial
Decarbonisation Strategy, Transport Decarbonisation Plan, Hydrogen Strategy, and
the Heat and Buildings Strategy.

•

Establishing a UK Emissions Trading Scheme (UK ETS), to replace the UK’s
participation in the EU ETS, that demonstrates the UK’s commitment to carbon
pricing as an effective tool that will help fulfil our climate change objectives. The UK
ETS will be aligned to our net zero target, giving industry the certainty they need to
invest in low carbon technologies.

Chapter 1 – Why Net Zero

Supporting green jobs across the UK
11. Last year, the Prime Minister set out
his Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial
Revolution, laying the foundations for a
green economic recovery from the impact of
COVID-19, outlining how we will level up the
country and put the UK at the forefront of the
growing global green economy.
12. This strategy builds upon that approach:
the package of policies will support up to
190,000 jobs by the middle of the 2020s
and up to 440,000 jobs in 2030. These
jobs will contribute to our wider ambition
of 2 million green jobs by 2030, which also
factor in employment that contributes to
other environmental goals. Updated analysis
suggests that around 56,000 green jobs
have been secured or created across the UK
economy, with some being already online and
others in the pipeline over the next decade.
13. There will be opportunities for each region
of the UK. For example, we are supporting
new investment in hydrogen and CCUS into
industrial clusters across the UK. We are also
driving the electrification of vehicles impacting
manufacturing and supply chains in Wales, the
Midlands and North East England, developing
Gigafactories in the UK, accelerating the roll
out of charging infrastructure across the UK,
and supporting roll-out of zero emission buses
which would boost manufacturers in Scotland
and Northern Ireland. We are also supporting
the development of new offshore wind power
off the coast of England, Scotland, and Wales;
and already investing in nuclear power in the
South East and West of England.

14. The impact of the transition to net zero on
the UK’s labour market could be significant:
with one estimate suggesting up to 20% of
the workforce could see demand for their
skills affected, either positively or negatively.13
Furthermore, as set out by HM Treasury’s Net
Zero Review, although the net macroeconomic
impact is likely to be small in 2050 relative to
total growth over the period, impacts between
and within regions over the next three decades
can vary. Our approach will need to reflect
that benefits and impacts of the transition
will be dependent on individual household
characteristics, such as their housing type and
current vehicle usage, to support those lowincome households most affected by individual
technology transitions.
15. Our approach to supporting green jobs,
attracting private investment, and tackling
climate change will benefit the whole of the
UK, including areas where a large proportion
of people are currently employed in highcarbon sectors. However, while employment
opportunities in green industries will emerge,
high-carbon sectors will have to adapt or
decline, resulting in a need to transition local
labour markets to ensure people have the right
skills to make the most of these opportunities.
16. Our sector deals, including on nuclear,
offshore wind, automotive and the North Sea
Transition Deal considered the skills needs
and support for the labour market transition
to net zero on a sectoral basis. The North
Sea Transition Deal, for example, will support
workers, businesses, and the supply chain
throughout the transition by harnessing the
sector’s existing capabilities, infrastructure,
and private investment potential to exploit
new and emerging technologies such as
hydrogen production, CCUS, offshore wind
and decommissioning. Through the Deal,
the sector, government, and unions will work
together over the next decade and beyond
to deliver the skills, innovation, and new
infrastructure required to decarbonise North
Sea production.
43

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
17. Our Automotive Transformation Fund and
industrial clusters framework will help these
industries, transition to a sustainable future.
We are also taking action to enable local
employers to set out their green skills needs,
and support workers to gain the skills they
need to access green jobs - such as through
our Skills Bootcamps.
18. Supporting innovation will also help unlock
jobs across low carbon sectors. For example,
our portfolio of net zero innovation will provide
at least £1.5 billion of government funding to
help commercialise clean technologies and
boost private investment across the UK.

44

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Examples of clean growth investment across the UK
Scotland, Aberdeen

Scotland has a technology hub
for offshore wind, including the
first successful floating turbines in
Aberdeen. The city is benefiting
from funding for the Aberdeen
Energy Transition Zone and the
Global Underwater Hub, as well
as the Net Zero Technology
Transition Programme.

Scotland, Orkney
Hydrogen in an Integrated
Maritime Energy Transition’
project £1.6 million from the UK
Government match-funding a
£2.3 million project to develop
hydrogen-based clean maritime
solutions.

Wales

Wales, Cwmbran

South Wales Industrial Cluster

aims to create a net zero industrial

EPIC - Electric Powertrain
Integration for heavy
Commercial vehicles £31.8
million project (£15.8 million from
the UK government) to develop
lightweight electric powertrains
for heavy goods to manage

zone from Pembrokeshire to the

extreme levels of electrical power.

Nearly £20 million to support the
deployment of decarbonisaton
infrastructure will go to the South
Wales Industrial Cluster which

Northern Ireland,
Belfast
Wrightbus zero-emission
buses £11.2 million from the
UK Government to develop
hydrogen-fuel technology.

Welsh/English border by 2040.

North West

North West,
Greater Manchester

Ellesmere Port plant
transforming to build electric
vans £100 million from
Stellantis to build electric vans,
safeguarding 1,000 jobs.

People Powered Retrofit
£1 million from the UK
Government to support initial
business development, leading
to 1,150 homes retrofitted and
3,500 local contractors retrained
over the next five years.

South West & East
of England

£84.6 million invested by
government and industry in
3 ambitious aerospace R&D
projects based in Bedford, Bristol
and Cranfield to help the industry
build back greener.

West Midlands
Public Sector Decarbonisation
Scheme £2 million from the
UK Government to Windsor
Academy Trust for heat
decarbonisation and energy
efficiency measures across
seven schools.

South West, Somerset
Hinkley Point C Nuclear Power
Station) £3.5 billion already
spent with companies in the
South West and 12,786 jobs
created so far, including 787
apprentices.

Key
Heat Pumps

Heat Pumps

Heat Networks

CCUS

Retrofit

Offshore Wind

Nuclear

Electricity 		
Networks

Automotive

Aerospace

Green Finance

Solar

Rail

Forestry

Maritime

Tidal

Waste and 		
Circular 		
Economy

Oil and Gas

Agriculture

Smart Systems

Science and 		
Innovation

Steel

Nature 		
Conservation
& Restoration

Climate Change
Adaptation

46

Low Carbon 		
Hydrogen

Public 		
Transport
and Cycling
Onshore Wind

UK-wide

CCUS
Offshore Wind
Automotive
Rail

Waste and Circ
Economy

46

Climate Chang
Adaptation

Chapter 1 – Why Net Zero

North East, Teesside

North East

Whitetail Clean Energy
8 Rivers Capital and Sembcorp
Energy UK’s 300MW NET power
plant, creating over
2000 construction and
200 operational jobs.

Gateshead District Energy
Scheme £5.9 million of UK
government funding for heat
network project with mine water
source heat pump connecting
5 buildings and up to 1,250 new
homes to the Gateshead District
Energy Scheme.

North East
Transforming automotive
manufacturing
£1 billion announced by Nissan
and Envision AESC to create an
electric vehicle manufacturing
hub supporting 6,200 jobs.

Yorkshire and
the Humber

Yorkshire and
the Humber

Able Marine Energy Park
Up to £75 million from the
UK Government to facilitate
a c.£500 million offshore
wind manufacturing port hub,
supporting up to 3,000
local jobs.

Siemens Gamesa offshore
wind factory expansion
£186 million from Siemens
Gamesa to expand their offshore
wind turbine blade factory,
creating and safeguarding up to
1,080 local jobs.

East Midlands

East of England

Tackling Climate Change on
the River Rase £200,000 from
the UK Government for naturebased solutions in the River
Rase catchment helping climate
adaptation.

Advanced Greenhouses
£120million from Greencoat
Capital backed by UK pension
funds to build 2 greenhouses
(covering 72 acres) warmed by
heat pumps utilising warm waste
water, creating 360 new green
jobs and 120 seasonal jobs.

Public Transport
and Cycling

Heat Networks

Low Carbon
Hydrogen

Retrofit

Electricity
Networks

Nuclear

Green Finance

Coventry will be the first zero emission bus town awarded ten
of millions to replace the entire local operator bus fleet with
electric
Solarbuses.

Aerospace

Maritime

Tidal

Forestry

Agriculture

Smart Systems

cular

Oil and Gas

Steel

Nature Conservation
& Restoration

ge

Science and
Innovation

Midlands, Coventry

Onshore Wind

47

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Case Study: North East of England
This region is leading the way in championing
new technologies, whether it is electric
vehicles (EVs), carbon capture, hydrogen,
or renewables. Research undertaken for
government indicates that the North East
could gain an extra 27,000 jobs by 2050
arising from UK climate action.14 The research
indicates that the gains to the region over
time come to a large extent from specific
investments needed for the UK to meet net
zero, rather than baseline economic growth.
In depth interviews with regional and industry
stakeholders has also revealed a real and
justified optimism about the region’s potential
to level up due to the Green Industrial
Revolution and remain an attractive location
for people to live and work.
The optimism is backed by significant
investments in offshore wind and EV
manufacturing. Spurred on by our 40 GW
offshore wind deployment plans and
£160 million investment in ports and
manufacturing, we have seen almost
£1.5 billion in investment in our offshore
wind manufacturing capabilities. Recently
announced projects include GE Renewable
Energy's plans for a new blade factory in
Teesside, South Korea’s SeAH Wind, and
GRI Renewable Industries’ construction of
factories in the Humber and Smulders
(Newcastle), and the expansion
of Siemens Gamesa's existing
site in Hull.15 Combined these
projects will support up to 3,600,
direct green jobs.

48

Nissan and Envision AESC have reaffirmed
their belief in the region and in Britain’s
plans to shift to EVs, through their £1 billion
flagship investment to establish an Electric
Vehicle Hub in Sunderland. The hub will bring
together electric vehicles, renewable energy,
and battery production. Nissan will invest up
to £423 million to produce a new-generation
all-electric vehicle in the UK. Envision AESC
will invest £450 million to build the UK’s first
large‑scale Gigafactory.

Chapter 1 – Why Net Zero

Leveraging private investment
19. We estimate that additional capital
investment must grow from present levels to
an average of £50-60 billion per year through
the late 2020s and 2030s. Most of this
investment will come from the private sector,
providing new opportunities for businesses
and investors. Over the same period, we could
see additional resource savings of around
£180 billion as a result of our reduced use of
oil and natural gas.
20. The policies and spending brought
forward in the Net Zero Strategy mean that
since the Ten Point Plan, HMG has mobilised
£26 billion of government capital investment
for the green industrial revolution. Along with
regulations, this will support up to 190,000
jobs in 2025, and up to 440,000 jobs in
2030, and leverage up to £90 billion of private
investment by 2030.
21. Development of existing clean energy
industries can give a sense of the scale of
investment we will likely need to develop and
grow new low carbon sectors. According
to Wind Europe16, from 2010-20 the UK
leveraged around £47 billion in our world
leading offshore wind industry, almost half
of all European investment in the sector. As
existing strengths expand and newer strengths
emerge, we will work with industry, investors,

and innovators to mobilise the private
investment required to deliver net zero.
22. Government has an important role to
play in ensuring a comprehensive financing
offer, long-term investment signalling and
fit-for-purpose business models coupled
with investment from numerous private
sources. We will work to create an attractive
environment to secure the right investment in
UK projects, with benefits to UK business and
communities. By building on our strengths,
including potential for rapid scale up across
the domestic value chain, and coupling this
with a strategic approach from government on
policy and investment, we can create the right
conditions to unlock the significant scale of
private investment that will be needed.
23. Recent steps include establishing a
new Office for Investment (OFI), which will
support high value investment opportunities
into the UK which align with key government
priorities. The new UK Infrastructure Bank
will provide leadership to the market in the
development of new technologies, particularly
in the scaling early-stage technologies that
have moved through the R&D phase. With an
initial £12 billion of investment the Bank will
crowd in private investment to accelerate our
progress to net zero whilst helping to level up
across the UK. (See Green Investment chapter
for more detail).

49

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Creating wider benefits for society,
the economy and the environment
24. Acting on climate change also brings
the opportunity for wider benefits for our
society individual wellbeing,17 economy, and
environment from improving public health to
protecting biodiversity. These include:
ü Cleaner air and less noise pollution, by
replacing fossil fuels with renewables
for generating electricity and moving to
electric vehicles.
ü Better insulated homes will reduce energy
consumption and lower bills, alongside
health benefits.
ü Opportunities to tackle mitigation and
adaptation together, and bring wider
benefits. For example, sustainable land
management can reduce emissions from
land, assist adaptation, improve food
security, and protect wildlife.18

ü Supporting biodiversity by planting
woodlands and restoring peatlands.
ü Physical and mental health benefits, and
better connectivity to jobs, public services,
and each other, by promoting more
walking and cycling, and improving access
to green spaces.
25. We know central government cannot and
should not deliver these benefits by acting
alone. We want to work in partnership with
people and communities across the country.
To do so, we will empower local leaders to
kickstart their own net zero initiatives, taking
responsibility for improving their areas and
shaping their own futures.

UK framework for ending our domestic contribution to
climate change
26. The UK has long been a global leader in
tackling climate change. The 2008 Climate
Change Act sets the legal framework for
reducing emissions across the UK economy.
In 2019, we became the first major economy
to legislate to reach net zero by 2050.
27. On our pathway to net zero, the UK has
interim targets called carbon budgets and
Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs).
Carbon budgets restrict the total amount
of greenhouse gases that the UK can emit
over five-year periods, ensuring continued
progress towards our long-term climate target.
NDCs are commitments made by Parties
to the Paris Agreement. They show how
Parties intend to reduce their greenhouse gas
emissions to meet the temperature goal of the
Paris Agreement.

50

28. In 2020, we communicated to the UN
Framework Convention on Climate Change
(UNFCCC) our NDC pledge to reduce UK
emissions by at least 68% by 2030 on
1990 levels.19,20
29. In June 2021, the Government set in
law the sixth carbon budget (CB6) limiting
the volume of greenhouse gases emitted
from 2033 to 2037. CB6 reduces emissions
by approximately 78% by 2035 compared
to 1990 levels. For the first time, this carbon
budget formally incorporates the UK’s share of
international aviation and shipping emissions,
enabling these emissions to be accounted
for consistently with other emissions and
demonstrating leadership in how we account
for our emissions.21

Chapter 1 – Why Net Zero
30. This strategy sets out the action we will
take to keep us on track for the UK’s carbon
budgets and 2030 NDC, and establishes our
longer-term pathway towards net zero by
2050. The Net Zero Strategy will be submitted
to the UNFCCC as our second Long-Term
Low Greenhouse Gas Emission Development
Strategy under the Paris Agreement.

51

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Emission reduction targets
in Scotland, Wales, and
Northern Ireland
The UK Government’s net zero
target covers the whole of the UK.
All parts of the UK have an integral
role to play in delivering the UKwide carbon budgets on the path
to net zero by 2050. Each nation
faces different challenges based
on the share of its emissions from
hard-to-treat sectors. For example,
Northern Ireland has a higher
proportion of its total emissions from
agriculture (29%), compared to the
UK overall (11%).22
Scotland
The Climate Change (Emissions Reduction
Targets) (Scotland) Act 2019, which amends
the Climate Change (Scotland) Act 2009, sets
targets to reduce Scotland’s emissions of all
greenhouse gases to net zero by 2045 at the
latest, with interim targets for reductions of
75% by 2030 and 90% by 2040 and annual
targets for other years. Scotland's net zero
target is in line with the independent, expert
advice of the Climate Change Committee.
The update to the Scottish Government’s
2018-2032 Climate Change Plan sets out
the pathway to its new and ambitious targets
set by the Climate Change Act 2019. It
is also a key strategic document for its green
recovery from COVID-19.

52

Wales
In March 2021, the Senedd passed a suite
of regulations to set a Net Zero Wales 2050
target, increase Wales decadal emissions
targets, and set Wales Carbon Budgets 2 and
3 in line with them. Relative to the baseline
established in legislation, the targets and
budgets set in law are:
•

Carbon Budget 2 (2021-25): 37% average
reduction with a 0% offset limit

•

Carbon Budget 3 (2026-30): 58%
average reduction

•

2030: 63% reduction

•

2040: 89% reduction

•

2050: at least 100% reduction (net zero)

Welsh legislation requires Welsh Government
Ministers to publish a plan for meeting each
of its carbon budgets. Net Zero Wales will
be published before COP26 and will set out
the policies and proposals to meet Wales
Carbon Budget 2 (2021-25) and set Wales on
a longer-term pathway to net zero.

Chapter 1 – Why Net Zero

Northern Ireland
The current legislative framework for tackling
climate change in Northern Ireland is the
UK Climate Change Act 2008. Although this
extends to Northern Ireland, it does not set a
specific greenhouse gas emissions reduction
target for Northern Ireland. It is implicit,
and based on independent advice of the
Climate Change Committee, that Northern
Ireland contributes its fair share of required
greenhouse gas emission reductions to meet
the UK‑wide net zero by 2050 target and the
UK Government’s 5-yearly carbon budgets set
under the UK Climate Change Act. A Climate
Change Act for Northern Ireland, whilst not
yet introduced, is currently being progressed
and remains a priority for delivery during the
current Assembly mandate, by March 2022.
The Northern Ireland Executive is also
currently developing a multi-decade Green
Growth Strategy. This longer-term Strategy
will be delivered through a series of Climate
Action Plans, which will set out the actions
to meet sector-specific greenhouse gas
emission targets.

53

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Leading the world to a greener, more sustainable future
31. The UK accounts for less than 1% of
global emissions.23 It is essential to enhance
international collaboration with other countries
and take urgent, concrete action globally to
reduce emissions in the near-term. The 2020s
is a critical decade in determining whether the
Paris temperature goals can be kept within
reach. The UK’s role in international climate
action is set out in the International Climate
Leadership and Collaboration chapter.
32. The UK is leading the way in global
climate action. Countries that are covered by
a commitment to net zero or carbon neutrality
now account for around 75% of global GHG
emissions, and around 80% of global GDP.
When the UK took the role of incoming COP
Presidency in December 2019, coverage
was less than 30% of world GDP. We have a
unique opportunity to further this leadership
through our G7 Presidency in 2021, and
as the host and president of the COP26
summit, in partnership with Italy. The COP26
summit will bring together nearly 200 Parties
to accelerate action towards the goals of the
Paris Agreement and the UNFCCC, and our
drive towards global net zero.
33. COP26 will be the forum to define the
decisive decade of climate action and setting
the path to global net zero emissions. The UK
is urging all parties to demonstrate how they
will reach net zero greenhouse gas emissions
through near term 2030 NDC targets and
Long-Term Strategies to 2050, protect people
and nature from climate change impacts,
fund climate action, and work together to
deliver immediate steps to keep warming
within 1.5℃. There will also be a renewed
focus on accelerating near-term action in
the top priority areas of coal phase out,
zero-emission vehicles, climate finance, and
halting deforestation.

54

34. The four goals for the UK’s COP26
Presidency are:
a. Mitigation: bring parties together to
deliver commitments on mitigation.
All countries should come forward with
ambitious 2030 climate plans (Nationally
Determined Contributions, or NDCs) and
long-term strategies to reach net zero
greenhouse gas emissions, with the aim of
keeping the goal of limiting global warming
to 1.5℃ in reach.
b. Adaptation: establish a new consensus
on protecting people and nature from
climate change impacts. All countries
should come forward with ambitious
adaptation plans and communications to
help their societies and economies adapt
to climate change.
c. Finance: To deliver on our first two goals,
developed countries must deliver on their
promise to mobilise at least $100 billion
in climate finance per year by 2020, and
through to 2025, to help developing
countries tackle and adapt to climate
change. International financial institutions
must play their part and we need work
towards unleashing the trillions in private
and public sector finance required to
secure global net zero.
d. Collaboration: bring countries together
to reach an outcome accelerating
climate action and finalising the Paris
Rulebook. Use the power of a fair
and inclusive Presidency to enhance
international collaboration among policy
makers, investors, business, young
people, indigenous peoples, and civil
society. This can help to solve key
challenges and accelerate the delivery of
the Paris Agreement goals, particularly:
adaptation and resilience, nature, clean
energy and transport, and finance.

Chapter 1 – Why Net Zero
35. In delivering net zero, the UK also
has the opportunity to be at the forefront
of large, expanding global markets and
capitalise on export opportunities in low
carbon technologies and services. This
includes renewables, CCUS, hydrogen, smart
energy systems and storage, Greenhouse
Gas Removals (GGRs), Advanced Modular
Reactors (AMRs), and transport. By leading
the world in the transition to a net zero
future, the UK will be well placed to benefit
economically by leading in the export of
sustainable technologies and solutions.

36. As the world economy moves to meet the
Paris commitments, with over 80% of world
GDP now committed to net zero, the UK
will set a clear direction and give businesses
the certainty they need to invest, grow, and
develop the technologies of the future. Some
commentators estimate global investment
in energy supply and infrastructure to reach
$92 trillion and $173 trillion over the next
thirty years. To achieve this level, the global
economy will need to more than double
annual investments from around $1.7 trillion
per year to between $3.1 and $5.8 trillion per
year on average.24
37. This strategy sets out our approach to
reaching net zero emissions and securing
the vast wider benefits as we transition to a
greener, more sustainable future. We urge
other countries to follow this example with
ambitious commitments at COP26 and
detailed plans to deliver on them.

55

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Endnotes
1

IPCC (2018), ‘Global warming of 1.5°C’, https://www.ipcc.ch/sr15/download/

2

IPCC (2021), ‘Sixth Assessment Report’, https://www.ipcc.ch/assessment-report/ar6/

3

BEIS (2021), ‘Climate change and net zero: public awareness and perceptions’, https://
www.gov.uk/government/publications/climate-change-and-net-zero-public-awareness-andperceptions

4

OBR (2021), ‘Fiscal Risk Report – July 2021’, https://obr.uk/frr/fiscal-risks-report-july-2021/

5

IPCC (2021), ‘Working Group 1 contribution to the Sixth Assessment Report’, https://www.
ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg1/#FullReport

6

Note, emissions figures exclude IAS. UNFCCC, ‘GHG emissions with LULUCF’, https://
di.unfccc.int/time_series

7

GDP, PPP (constant 2017 international $), World Bank https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/
NY.GDP.MKTP.PP.KD

8

ONS (2021), ‘Low Carbon and Renewable Energy Economy (LCREE) Survey direct and
indirect estimates of employment, UK, 2014 to 2019’, https://www.ons.gov.uk/economy/
environmentalaccounts/adhocs/13181lowcarbonandrenewableenergyeconomylcreesurvey
directandindirectestimatesofemploymentuk2014to2019;
ONS (2021), ‘Low carbon and renewable energy economy UK:2019’, https://www.ons.gov.uk/
releases/lowcarbonandrenewableenergyeconomyuk2019

9

Emissions data excludes IAS emissions. World Bank, https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/
NY.GDP.MKTP.PP.KD UNFCCC, BEIS Greenhouse Gas Inventory, ‘Final UK greenhouse gas
emission national statistics: 1990 to 2019’, https://www.gov.uk/government/statistics/final-ukgreenhouse-gas-emissions-national-statistics-1990-to-2019; National Inventory Submissions

10

BEIS (2019), ‘Energy Innovation Needs Assessment’, https://www.gov.uk/government/
publications/energy-innovation-needs-assessments, 38

11

The UK has a comparative advantage in a product or activity if it can produce it at a lower
opportunity cost than its competitors. The principle implies that the UK should focus on
production of those high-value goods, services and innovative activities where it is most
competitive. It can then trade these for other goods and services where other countries have a
comparative advantage over the UK. Consumers and producers in the UK and trading partners
enjoy the efficiency gains from each country specialising and trading.

12

ONS (2021), ‘Low carbon and renewable energy economy, UK:2019’, https://www.ons.gov.uk/
economy/environmentalaccounts/bulletins/finalestimates/2019

13

LSE Grantham Institute (2021), Green economy: how the transition to net-zero could affect UK
jobs across the country. https://www.lse.ac.uk/granthaminstitute/news/green-economy-howthe-transition-to-net-zero-could-affect-uk-jobs-across-the-country/

14

BEIS (2021) Net zero in the North East: Regional transition impacts, research commissioned for
BEIS

56

Chapter 1 – Why Net Zero
15

BEIS (2021), ‘Second wind for the Humber, Teesside and UK energy industry’, [Press release],
https://www.gov.uk/government/news/second-wind-for-the-humber-teeside-and-uk-energyindustry

16

Wind Europe (2021), ‘Offshore Wind in Europe, Key Trends and Statistics 2020’, exchange
rate based on monthly average between Jan 2011 and Dec 2020, https://windeurope.org/
intelligence-platform/product/offshore-wind-in-europe-key-trends-and-statistics-2020/

17

HM Treasury (2021), ‘Green Book supplementary guidance: wellbeing’, https://assets.
publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/1005388/
Wellbeing_guidance_for_appraisal_-_supplementary_Green_Book_guidance.pdf

18

IPCC (2021), ‘Working Group 1 contribution to the Sixth Assessment Report’, https://www.
ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg1/#FullReport

19

BEIS (2020), ‘The UK’s Nationally Determined Contribution under the Paris Agreement’,
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/the-uks-nationally-determined-contributioncommunication-to-the-unfccc

20

The UK NDC is based on territorial emissions – greenhouse gases emitted from sources within
the UK – so does not include emissions from international aviation and shipping. This is in
line with international reporting requirements, international expectations, and advice from the
Climate Change Committee.

21

CCC (2020), ‘Sixth Carbon Budget’, https://www.theccc.org.uk/publication/sixth-carbonbudget/

22

BEIS analysis (2021), Greenhouse Gas Inventories for England, Scotland, Wales & Northern
Ireland: 1990-2019 using AR5 with climate feedback Global Warming Potentials https://uk-air.
defra.gov.uk/reports/cat09/2106240841_DA_GHGI_1990-2019_Final_Issue1.2.xlsx

23

PBL (2020), Trends in Global CO2 and Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions; 2020 Report, https://
www.pbl.nl/en/publications/trends-in-global-co2-and-total-greenhouse-gas-emissions-2020report

24

BloombergNEF (2021), ‘New Energy Outlook 2021’, https://about.bnef.com/new-energyoutlook/

57

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

The Journey
to Net Zero

2

Chapter

59

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
1. Transforming the UK’s economy over the
next three decades to reach net zero will
be a journey of unprecedented opportunity
and change. Our greenhouse gas emissions
have fallen by more than two-fifths in the last
thirty years, with particular progress in the
decarbonisation of our electricity system,
but we need to go further and faster in the
next thirty years, right across the economy.1
It will mean developing and rolling out new,
innovative, and climate resilient technologies;
embracing new ways of doing things –
from new ways of travelling, heating our
homes, and using our land; and creating
new industries and jobs through our green
industrial revolution.

60

2. The policies to drive these changes,
and the opportunities arising for individuals
and the UK economy, are set out across
the remaining chapters of this Strategy.
This chapter first explores what reaching
net zero by 2050 could mean for the UK;
potential scenarios of how we will get there;
and an indicative pathway to deliver on our
ambitious carbon budgets along the way,
while navigating the inherent uncertainty. We
look at this journey from a whole-economy
perspective, considering the key interactions
between sectors, technologies and the
energy system that need to be planned for as
we decarbonise.

Chapter 2 – The Journey to Net Zero

The UK’s Net Zero Future
Our industrial heartlands are
reinvigorated, with innovation
and private investment in
clean technologies – such
as wind, carbon capture and
hydrogen in multiple locations
across the UK including the
North East; or the manufacture
of batteries and electric vehicles
in the Midlands.
Our green economy
and its supply chains
provide sustainable jobs for
highly-skilled workers – in
construction, manufacturing,
engineering, science, nature
conservation, finance and
more, across the economy and
the UK, including in rural areas.
Our businesses are delivering
the latest low carbon
technologies, services and
innovations for the UK and
export markets; and are more
resilient to the global net zero
transition.

Our journeys are made in
zero emission vehicles, with
trains, ships and planes
running on new low carbon
energy sources.
Our towns and cities have
cleaner air for everyone, and
support walking and cycling
with benefits for health.
Our goods are designed to last
longer and be more efficient,
while being used, repaired
and remanufactured within a
circular economy.
Our natural environment is
protected, enhanced, and
more diverse, with healthy
ecosystems and increased
biodiversity, supporting a
sustainable rural economy
and providing wider benefits,
including improved mental
health and protection from risks
like flooding and overheating.

Our homes are warm and
comfortable, powered
and heated by clean,
affordable energy.

61

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

A systems approach to the net zero journey
3. The characteristics of the net zero
challenge – requiring action by multiple
parties across the public and private sectors,
delivery at pace, and management of large
uncertainties – underline the need for strong
coordination in policy development and clear
signalling to markets. Government taking
a systems approach to policy will help to
navigate this complexity. We must consider
the environment, society, and economy as
parts of an interconnected system, where
changes to one area can directly or indirectly
impact others. This will help to ensure we
design policy to maximise benefits, account
for dependencies, mitigate conflicting interests
and take account of learning as we go. It
reduces the risk of unintended consequences,
ensuring individual decisions designed to help
achieve net zero do not end up hindering it or
other important objectives.

5. We have implemented several key elements
of a systems approach, including:

4. A systems approach does not attempt
to design a ‘perfect’ net zero end-state
thirty years into the future. It aims to enable
innovative and desirable solutions to be
developed, and to ensure that decisions
are made when needed, based on the best
evidence available at that time and with
the fullest possible range of considerations
brought to bear. This includes taking a
dynamic approach to policymaking and
updating our assumptions on an ongoing
basis; considering public reactions to a policy;
accounting for where a particular investment
or technology deployment may affect another
sector’s decarbonisation; and considering the
net costs and benefits across different parts of
the economy and environment.

6. Work will continue to develop this approach
further. This Strategy encompasses changes
from across the system that will need to be
delivered to achieve net zero.

62

•

Establishing forums for delivering shared
net zero goals and identifying key issues
through cross-system governance
structures, including two new Cabinet
committees;

•

Working towards a shared understanding
of interdependencies and risks across
different parts of the net zero challenge, for
example through £2 million funding from
the Shared Outcomes Fund to develop
systems tools;

•

Testing and determining feasible net zero
scenarios with our whole energy systems
modelling suite, and supporting our work
to identify high leverage, systemic actions
such as CCUS that will be necessary in a
wide range of scenarios.

7. As summarised in Figure 3 below, each
sector of the economy will play a vital role
in the future net zero system, and these are
highly connected – changes in one area can
directly or indirectly impact others.
8. Applying a systems approach to
policymaking can help to address complex
policy challenges, including to identify
interdependencies. The case study below for
electric vehicles demonstrates the need to
understand the complex interactions which
drive change. Government will continue to
test and update its understanding of systems
and how they relate to one another, which
forms an important part of how we will monitor
delivery, explored further in the Embedding net
zero in government chapter.

63

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Figure 3: The role of each sector in the
future net zero system

Power

Natural Resources & Waste
Role of sector: land provides both
energy sources and natural carbon
sinks, while polluting areas, including
agriculture and the treatment of waste,
must decarbonise.

Role of sector: generates electricity to meet
low carbon energy demand across all sectors.
Relationship with other sectors: depends
on demand across end use sectors, while
specific forms of generation can use carbon
capture technology, hydrogen, and waste.

Relationship with other sectors:
depends on developing new ways of
using land sustainably, while end uses
like agricultural machinery will rely on
low carbon energy.

Greenhouse Gas Removals

Industry

Role of sector: alongside natural
carbon sinks, engineered removals
deliver negative emissions, either
directly from the air or as a cobenefit of methods to generate
power, fuels and products.

Role of sector: develops cleaner ways to
produce the wide range of products we all
rely on, from food and drink to iron and steel.

Relationship with other
sectors: compensates any
residual emissions to ensure a
net zero system. Engineered
removals also use electricity.
64

Relationship with other sectors: depends
on low carbon energy supply from power
and hydrogen, as well as the use of carbon
capture technology alongside power,
hydrogen and greenhouse gas removals.

Chapter 2 – The Journey to Net Zero

Heat & Buildings
Role of sector: our public, business, industrial and
residential buildings, as well as products we use for
cooking and everyday living, move to green forms of
energy.
Relationship with other sectors: depends on low
carbon energy, while different heat options will in
turn affect the development of supply sectors.

Transport
Role of sector: all forms of travel that keep modern
society moving – road, rail, aviation, and shipping –
run on green forms of energy.
Relationship with other sectors: depends on
low carbon energy, while different transport options
will in turn impact the development of supply sectors.

Fuel Supply & Hydrogen
Role of sector: supports energy supply,
especially in areas that are harder to
electrify such as heavier transport. Oil and
gas play a far reduced role where needed
and abated by carbon capture technology
where possible.
Relationship with other sectors:
depends on demand across end use
sectors, while different types of hydrogen
production use electricity, carbon capture,
and biomass.

65

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Case study of a ‘systems
approach’: Electric Vehicle
(EV) roll out
The transition to EVs is central to
decarbonising road transport. Higher sales
of EVs means overall electricity demand
will increase, requiring greater electricity
generation and grid capacity. Over the lifetime
of an EV, overall carbon emissions are already
significantly lower than a traditional internal
combustion engine car and, as the electricity
grid continues to decarbonise, the lifetime
of emissions from driving an EV reduce. The
transition to EVs therefore has a potential
knock-on impact on the industrial sector and
its wider supply chains, particularly in certain
regions of the UK, for example creating
additional demand for new wind turbine
manufacture and installation.
More EVs will affect both the scale and
nature of electricity demand, including the
timing and scale of peaks, as patterns of
charging behaviour develop (e.g. many people
choosing to charge at the end of the working
day). The changes this could bring need to be
carefully thought through, and opportunities
seized. For example, innovative technology
could support smoothing of electricity
demand, by allowing electricity stored in
batteries to be fed back into the grid
at times of low renewable generation
or high demand (vehicle-to-grid
technology). Smart charging (enabled
by regulations that Government plans
to lay later this year) will also help
to move demand away from peak
times as well as helping consumers
to benefit from lower cost off-peak
electricity.

66

The roll out of EVs will have an impact on
demand for petrol and diesel, with potential
to impact through the supply chain, from
production to processing, distribution and
retail. Uptake will also have an impact on
R&D, investment, and manufacturing of both
EVs, and the infrastructure required to use
them. The effect of investment in these areas
would be wider availability of the infrastructure
required for charging, reduction in the cost of
manufacturing, and further advances in EV
technology.
Manufacturing costs will likely fall as
production increases at scale and investment
in R&D will bring down the costs of
components. Wider availability of reliable
charging infrastructure should remove range
anxiety for EV drivers and streamlining
payment methods should improve the
consumer experience. These two factors
will then encourage further take up of EVs
with these sets of relationships representing
positive feedback loops.
The examples above are a significant
simplification of some of the interactions
between sectors as EV roll out progresses.
The below systems map shows a more
granular picture, though this is also a
simplification and some variables will have
other influences that are not displayed here.

Chapter 2 – The Journey to Net Zero

Figure 4: Example of a ‘systems map’ showing some interactions to consider
in the roll out of electric vehicles

67

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Pathways to net zero by 2050
Key features of the net zero
transition
9. There are a range of ways in which net zero
could be achieved in the UK. Our exact route
will depend on the availability and deployment
of key technologies, supported by long-term
market growth, as well as the extent to which
individuals and businesses adopt green
choices. Our approach must consider physical
factors, such as land availability and climate
change risks like drought and flooding. As a
principle, we will pursue options that leave
the environment in a better state for the next
generation by improving biodiversity, air quality,
water quality, natural capital, and resilience to
climate change where appropriate.
10. As we increase our efforts to decarbonise
domestically, we must ensure production, and
the associated greenhouse gas emissions,
does not shift to other countries with lower
climate obligations. In the Net Zero Review
we consider the carbon leakage risk facing
UK businesses on a sectoral basis and
discuss the approaches to help address this
risk.2 In addition to encouraging our trading
partners to increase their own efforts, we are
engaging with industry to better understand
the risks and consider the full range of options
to address these, including through the UK
Emissions Trading Scheme, discussed further
in the Industry chapter.
11. While there are significant costs in
reaching net zero, the cost of inaction is much
higher. The Office for Budget Responsibility’s
recent report showed unmitigated climate
change resulting in “debt spiralling up to
around 290% of GDP thanks to the cost of
adapting to an ever hotter climate and of
more frequent and more costly economic
shocks”.3 In addition to reducing the risks of
catastrophic climate change, net zero will also
bring significant benefits and opportunities,
such as economic growth and jobs in new
68

green sectors, reducing air pollution with
benefits for health, and enhancing biodiversity.
We also expect costs to continue to fall
as green technology advances, industries
decarbonise, and private sector investment
grows. Recent cost benefit analysis for the
sixth carbon budget4 suggests that the
significant benefits of net zero more than offset
the costs, resulting in a net benefit.
12. Most costs are the additional capital
costs (and associated financing) of low carbon
technologies, although significant fuel savings
help to offset these. We estimate that the
net cost, excluding air quality and emissions
savings benefits, will be equivalent to 1-2% of
GDP in 2050. Our approach will need to reflect
that benefits and impacts of the transition
will be dependent on individual household
characteristics, such as their housing type and
current vehicle usage, to support those lowincome households most affected by individual
technology transitions. The government’s
approach will also support the principle that
those who produce the pollution should bear
the costs of managing it. Further information
on the economic impacts is set out in HM
Treasury’s Net Zero Review, which informs
our approach to achieving a transition that
works for households, businesses and public
finances, and maximises economic growth.
13. The exact technology and energy mix in
2050 cannot be known now, and our path to
net zero will respond to the innovation and
adoption of new technologies over time. We
expect, however, to rely on the following key
green technologies and energy carriers, which
interact to meet demand across sectors and
to remain low carbon.
•

Electricity from low carbon generation
and storage technologies meets higher
demand for low carbon power in buildings,
industry, transport, and agriculture;

Chapter 2 – The Journey to Net Zero
•

Hydrogen can complement the electricity
system, especially in harder to electrify
areas like parts of industry and heating,
and in heavier transport such as aviation
and shipping. A range of low carbon
production methods could be used;5

•

Biomass combined with CCUS can
remove carbon from the atmosphere
and support low carbon electricity and
hydrogen generation. Biomass and other
wastes can also support low carbon fuels
for industry, buildings, and transport.

•

Carbon capture usage and storage
(CCUS) can capture CO2 from power
generation, hydrogen production,
and industrial processes – storing it
underground or using it. This technology
also supports negative emissions from
engineered greenhouse gas removals –
bioenergy with carbon capture and storage
(BECCS) and Direct Air Carbon Capture
and Storage (DACCS);

14. These new technologies could transform
our energy system by 2050. Electricity, low
carbon hydrogen, and BECCS could all
scale up, while reliance on fossil fuels will
drop considerably and can be combined
with carbon capture technology to abate
emissions, with any residual emissions offset
by greenhouse gas removals.

Figure 5: 2019 energy generation and end uses6

69

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Illustrative 2050 scenarios
15. Modelling illustrative net zero scenarios
allows us to explore possible energy
and technology solutions in 2050, better
understand important system-wide
interactions, and identify features common to
all options. Below we show three modelled
scenarios all reaching net zero by 2050
through the same pace of decarbonisation,
which demonstrate a range of practical ways
in which net zero could feasibly be delivered
with technology and resources known
today.7 They do not represent ‘most likely’ or
‘preferred’ solutions, and the actual position
in 2050 may also vary outside of these
scenarios. There is a great deal of uncertainty
inherent in any modelling as far into the
future as 2050, which is highly sensitive
to economic, societal, and technological
developments – see the Technical Annex for
details of the modelling.

70

Chapter 2 – The Journey to Net Zero

2050 Scenario 1: High electrification
Explores the impact of widespread electrification to support transport, heating, and
industry decarbonisation, relative to other scenarios, with deep decarbonisation of
electricity supply.
This pathway sees UK electricity generation increasing to around 690 TWh, more than doubling
from today,8 and low carbon hydrogen production scaling up to 240 TWh by 2050. Sectors such
as road transport and buildings reach near zero emissions, through widespread electrification,
with small residual emissions possible in personal and heavy goods transport; while the majority
of buildings use electric heating, with the remainder using connected low carbon district
heat networks. Industry emissions are near zero, through the full suite of green technologies
(electricity, hydrogen, and CCUS), alongside energy efficiency measures. Electricity generation is
overwhelmingly decarbonised, through widespread deployment of renewables alongside other
low carbon generation including nuclear power and gas with CCUS. Residual emissions remain
in aviation, agriculture, and waste, though these reduce from today’s levels through, for example,
sustainable aviation fuels, more efficient farm practices, and reduction in landfill waste. These
emissions are balanced by significant afforestation, together with engineered removals (primarily
BECCS but also DACCS).9

Figure 6: High electrification scenario: energy generation and end uses in 2050

Figure 7: High electrification scenario: residual emissions in 2050
Power
Fuel supply & Hydrogen
Industry
Heat & Buildings
Domestic transport
International aviation & shipping
Agriculture & LULUCF
Waste & F-gases
Greenhouse Gas Removals

-100

-50

0

50

100

Emissions in MtCO2e

71

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

2050 Scenario 2: High resource
Explores the impact of using low carbon hydrogen more extensively, particularly for
decarbonising buildings, power, and heavy vehicles. It also assumes higher levels of treeplanting are achievable, increasing the ‘negative emissions’ available from land-use sinks.
This pathway sees low carbon hydrogen generation increasing to around 500 TWh. As hydrogen
is the main energy source for heating, electricity demand and therefore generation is lower than
in scenario 1 at 610 TWh. Electricity and district heat still play a role in both residential and nondomestic buildings but the majority of building heat demand is assumed to be met by hydrogen.
End users of energy (e.g. transport and buildings) reach similar levels of decarbonisation as
in scenario 1. In heavy transport, there is a shift to increased use of hydrogen. Compared to
scenario 1, greater levels of tree planting allow for slightly higher residual emissions to remain,
primarily in hydrogen production. Engineered removals are at a similar scale to scenario 1 to offset
remaining residual emissions in the hardest-to-decarbonise sectors of aviation and agriculture.

Figure 8: High resource scenario: energy generation and end uses in 2050

Figure 9: High resource scenario: residual emissions in 2050
Power
Fuel supply & Hydrogen
Industry
Heat & Buildings
Domestic transport
International aviation & shipping
Agriculture & LULUCF
Waste & F-gases
Greenhouse Gas Removals

72

-100

-50

0

Emissions in MtCO2e

50

100

Chapter 2 – The Journey to Net Zero

2050 Scenario 3: High innovation
Explores a world in which successful innovations enable lower residual emissions to be
reached in aviation, while higher capture rates increase the impact of carbon capture
technologies, with higher levels of DACCS deployed over the 2040s.
In scenarios 1 and 2, end users of energy such as transport, industry, and buildings are
decarbonised extensively, while accounting for residual emissions in aviation and baseline
assumptions on the technological potential for carbon capture. In this scenario more optimistic
assumptions around carbon capture and aviation, such as the availability of sustainable fuels at
scale and zero emission aircraft, cause a divergence from scenarios 1 and 2 in the deployment
of certain technologies. With lower residual emissions in aviation and improvement in capture
or negative emission potential, end use sectors such as transport, buildings, agriculture and
industrial dispersed sites can decarbonise to a lesser extent. This pathway sees electricity and
low carbon hydrogen generation requirements in between the two scenarios explored previously,
at 670 TWh and 330 TWh respectively.

Figure 10: High innovation scenario: energy generation and end uses in 2050

Figure 11: High innovation scenario: residual emissions in 2050
Power
Fuel supply & Hydrogen
Industry
Heat & Buildings
Domestic transport
International aviation & shipping
Agriculture & LULUCF
Waste & F-gases
Greenhouse Gas Removals

-100

-50

0

50

100

Emissions in MtCO2e

73

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Insights from potential 2050 outcomes for net zero journey
16. Despite the uncertainties, we can draw
some broad conclusions from the illustrative
scenarios above to help shape our approach
to net zero:
•

•

•

Extensive decarbonisation is required
across transport, buildings, and industry,
given the need to account for possible
residual emissions in agriculture, aviation,
waste, and heavy industry and possible
limitations on deployment of greenhouse
gas removals;
Given this, extensive energy efficiency
measures across these sectors are likely
to be beneficial to bring down energy
demand and cost across the system.
Every scenario sees overall energy demand
from end use sectors reduce substantially;

•

Both electricity and hydrogen demand
grow significantly from today, and need
to be produced with very low levels
of emissions by 2050. Biomass also
becomes a key energy carrier to enable
engineered removals and support low
carbon fuel production;

•

Given the need to plan for some residual
emissions, it is appropriate to plan for use
of greenhouse gas removals. The carbon
capture processes needed for this are
likely to play a significant role in wider
decarbonisation, for example in power;

•

Primary energy sources increase in
number and diversify, including a range
of renewables, and from biomass
and waste. This diversified system
for energy generation also becomes
more interdependent to ensure
security of supply.

Different technologies for these sectors
can be accommodated (for example,
predominantly electric heat pumps or
hydrogen for heating), meaning wide
ranges of possible electricity and hydrogen
demand remain plausible;

Indicative delivery pathway to 2037
An indicative pathway meeting our
emissions targets up to Carbon
Budget 6
17. Drawing on the insights from our
illustrative 2050 scenarios, we have developed
a delivery pathway: an indicative trajectory of
emissions reductions which meets our targets
up to the sixth carbon budget ending in 2037.
This is broadly consistent with all three 2050
scenarios and follows decarbonisation that
we aim to achieve through this Strategy. The
uncertainties inherent in our 2050 scenarios
also apply to our 2037 delivery pathway. It is
designed only to provide an indicative basis
on which to make policy and plan to deliver
on our whole-economy emissions targets.
The exact path we take is likely to differ
74

and must respond flexibly to changes that
arise over time.
18. The pathway is based on our
understanding now of the potential for each
sector to reduce emissions up to 2037,
considering the balance between sectors that
is optimal for the entire economy in terms
of delivery and cost. Emission reductions
beyond our existing policies combine evidence
on theoretical potential for abatement with
judgements about barriers to delivery, the rate
at which low carbon options could be adopted
in practice and timescales for key decisions.
We take an economy-wide view, including to
balance end use sector demands with supply
side considerations, such as infrastructure and
the operation of the electricity and other fuel
supply sectors.

Chapter 2 – The Journey to Net Zero
19. As a general principle, our indicative
pathway to 2037 prioritises emissions
reductions where known technologies and
solutions exist and thereby minimises reliance
on the use of greenhouse gas removals
to meet our targets. It is designed to drive
progress in the short-term, while creating
options in a way that seeks to keep the

range of options presented in the illustrative
2050 scenarios open. The Embedding Net
Zero in Government chapter sets out how
Government will monitor progress to ensure
we stay on track for our emissions targets
and respond to developments affecting our
long-term goals.

75

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

4500

800

4000

700

3500

Emissions in MtCO2e

900

600

3000

500

2500

400
300

CB1
CB2

Headroom for IAS

1500

CB3

200
100

2000

CB4

1000

CB5
CB6

500

0
0
1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050

2025 – 55% reduction (excluding
international aviation and shipping emissions)
2030 – NDC target for at least 68%
reduction (excluding international aviation
and shipping)
2035 – 78% reduction (including international
aviation and shipping)
2050 – 100% reduction
To meet whole-economy net zero target

76

5 year budget MtCO2e

Figure 12: Indicative emissions reductions to meet UK carbon
budgets and NDC10

Chapter 2 – The Journey to Net Zero

Indicative sectoral decarbonisation
pathways
20. Broken down by sector, our indicative
delivery pathway implies the reduction in
emissions up to 2037. These indicative sector
pathways, presented as ranges for residual
emissions to reflect the inherent uncertainty,
help to drive change and to plan how we
can remain on track to meet our targets.

Given the interdependencies and interactions
within and between sectors, the exact areas
for emissions savings may shift, as our
understanding increases. These pathways
are therefore not predictions or targets: the
emissions savings ultimately contributed by
each sector are likely to differ as we respond
to real-world changes.

Figure 13: Indicative delivery pathway to 2037 by sector

Source: BEIS analysis

77

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
21. The pathway considers that sectors
have the potential to make progress at
different rates, for example, depending on the
availability and deployment of technological
solutions; development of supply chains,

Sector

% of UK
emissions
(2019)11

financing, and infrastructure; and the need
to overcome wider delivery barriers. These
constraints and action to overcome them are
summarised below and explored in more detail
in subsequent chapters.

Expected
reduction
by 2035
Key features of the delivery pathway
from 1990 to 2037

11%

80-85%

By 2035, all our electricity will need to come
from low carbon sources, subject to security of
supply, moving to a fully decarbonised power
system whilst meeting a 40-60% increase
in demand. Expected residual emissions
will be limited to CCUS plants, unabated
gas, and energy from waste. This means
increased investment in the grid network,
electricity storage solutions and flexible grid
management, to ensure decarbonisation
without risking security of supply.

Fuel supply
and Hydrogen

5%

53-60%

Large potential from electrification of oil and
gas installations and addressing venting
and flaring in the existing fuel supply sectors
where demand is expected to fall over time.
Emissions savings in the incumbent fuel supply
sector will be marginally offset by emissions
expected from low carbon hydrogen and
fuel production, which will enable significant
emissions savings through fuel switching
across a range of end use sectors. Hydrogen
production is expected to establish in the
2020s before a significant ramp up in the early
2030s, using a range of production methods to
meet demand.

Industry

15%

63-76%

Deep decarbonisation through resource and
energy efficiency, fuel switching, and CCUS
deployment are all required, starting with
industrial clusters and major emitters, such as
the steel sector. Decarbonisation of smaller
and more dispersed sites will also be needed,
placing demands on associated infrastructure.

Power

78

Chapter 2 – The Journey to Net Zero

17%

47-62%

Addressing heat emissions will require a
substantial increase in the uptake of low
carbon heating up to 2035, when all new
installations will be net zero compatible. In
any heat pathway, improved energy efficiency
– through investment in buildings fabrics and
better product standards – will reduce overall
energy use and costs. Advanced smart meters
will inform consumers and businesses about
their energy use, encouraging energy-saving
behaviour.

Transport12

32%

47-59%

Road transport is transformed through
increasing use of zero emission vehicles,
driven in part by ending the sale of new
petrol and diesel cars and vans by 2030 and
supported by increasing the share of trips
taken by cycling, walking, and public transport.
Progress is expected to decarbonise aviation
and shipping through efficiency improvements
and the uptake of low carbon fuels. These will
require international coordination.

Natural
Resources

20%

39-51%

Increased afforestation and peat restoration
contribute significantly, though with long
lead-in times. By 2035, perennial energy crop
and short rotation forestry can contribute
significantly to carbon sequestration, with
potential to support power, fuel supply,
industry, and transport through BECCS and
generation of biofuels.

Heat and
Buildings

Waste emissions reduce with increased
diversion of municipal biodegradable waste
streams away from landfill, and potential
savings from other parts of the sector, such
as wastewater. Use and therefore emissions
of F-gases continues to reduce in response to
future control measures.
Agriculture emissions are largely from livestock
and nutrient management. The pathway
assumes emissions will be reduced through
improved and innovative farming practices.
Greenhouse
Gas Removals

Not applicable

Deployment of BECCS and DACCS. Deployment
dependent on development of UK CCUS
infrastructure and the availability of suitable,
sustainable, and low-cost biomass feedstocks.
79

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
22. The changes we expect in sectors
will evolve over time. In some cases,
alternative measures within a sector could
achieve broadly the same level of emissions
abatement. In other cases, we will need
to respond to strategic decisions that
government makes in the future. One of the
most significant decisions that will affect our
pathway will be on the balance of types of low
carbon heating solutions, mainly electricity and
hydrogen, deployed in buildings. The Heat
and Buildings Strategy commits to strategic
decisions on the relative roles of hydrogen
and electrification for on-grid homes by 2026
and the relevant sector chapter in this strategy
explores alternative options that are consistent
with the level of ambition implied by our
delivery pathway.

Key energy changes and deployment
implied by the delivery pathway
23. Assumed energy demand in our pathway
is based on government’s central assumptions
about required technology uptake, with a
variation to reflect the outstanding strategic
decision on the potential role of hydrogen
to heat buildings. We expect both natural
gas and oil demand to more than halve by

80

2037 while overall, energy demand reduces
significantly through increased efficiency and
fossil fuels are replaced by new sources of
energy. Electricity generation increases to
meet a larger share of energy demand, and
low carbon hydrogen grows from a near zero
base to play a significant role from the 2030s.
24. Decisions in 2026 around hydrogen’s
role in providing heat in buildings will have
a substantial impact on relative hydrogen
and electricity demands – Figure 14 shows
a scenario where hydrogen is not used
to heat buildings, which is predominantly
decarbonised via electrification through heat
pumps. In a scenario where hydrogen has a
more significant role in decarbonising heat in
buildings, hydrogen demand would increase
by 70 TWh by 2035 and electricity demand
would decrease by 20 TWh (due to the high
efficiency of heat pumps more hydrogen is
required to produce the same amount of heat).
Beyond heat, the indicative delivery pathway
describes just one scenario for potential
hydrogen demand in industry, transport, and
power – the UK Hydrogen Strategy takes
a wider view to consider greater ranges for
hydrogen use in all sectors.13

Chapter 2 – The Journey to Net Zero

Figure 14: Energy demands up to 2037 assumed by delivery pathway
2,500

2,000

TWh

1,500

1,000

500

0
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 2031 2032 2033 2034 2035 2036 2037

Natural gas

Oil

Bioenergy

Electricity

Hydrogen

Source: BEIS analysis

Note: for illustrative purposes, this shows energy demands in a scenario in which electricity is predominantly used to
heat buildings. See the Technical Annex for hydrogen for heat scenario.

81

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
25. Meeting the increasing demand for low
carbon energy across the economy relies
on scaling up significantly, the new green
technologies and energy carriers identified
above. While the deployment of these will
respond to changes over time, our indicative
pathway suggests they are central to
decarbonisation over the next 15 years:
•

•

82

Electricity sees an expected 40-60%
increase in demand by 2035, all met
from low carbon sources to bring forward
the government’s commitment to a fully
decarbonised power system by 15 years,
subject to security of supply;
Hydrogen production capacity ambition
for 5 GW by 2030, which is expected
to increase to around 10 or 17 GW
by 2035 (depending on the role of
hydrogen for heat);

•

•

Carbon capture is expected to need to
reach capacity for a total of ~20-30 MtCO2
per year by the early 2030s across the
economy – more than double what was
set out in the Ten Point Plan – and at least
~50 MtCO2 by the mid-2030s;
Biomass is anticipated to need
increases in feedstock supply from the
2020s to support BECCS deployment
through various routes for use in
‘hard‑to‑decarbonise’ areas. These
resources will be explored in the
Biomass Strategy.

26. Figure 15 below shows some wider
illustrative deployment of technologies
or measures assumed in our pathway to
demonstrate a sense of the scale and pace
of change required. These are based on
modelling assumptions, which are detailed
in the Technical Annex, and do not represent
targets – the delivery of such measures
will depend on, and respond to, realworld change.

Chapter 2 – The Journey to Net Zero

Figure 15: Illustrative examples of deployment implied by the delivery pathway
Today

Mid 2020s

Early 2030s

Mid 2030s

Zero emission cars
As a proportion of total
car fleet
1 icon = 5 % points

Low carbon homes*
Cumulative homes
with low carbon
heating
1 icon = 1m

Electricity
generation
Total UK generation
1 icon = 50 TWh

Carbon Capture
Total annual CO2
captured across
sectors
1 icon = 5 MtCO2
Trees
Annual area of
afforestation in UK
1 icon = 10,000 ha
Note: For illustrative purposes, icons represent approximate and rounded figures from our modelling. Where there
are ranges, an approximate central point has been shown.
* Homes with low carbon heating includes homes heated by heat pumps, hydrogen or connected to heat networks

83

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Essential activity driving the delivery pathway
27. It is, of course, impossible to predict every
possible path to net zero that might arise over
the next 30 years – we do not seek to do so.
New innovations may emerge, enabling the
market to move more quickly or at lower cost
than expected, while in other areas progress
may be hindered by unexpected deployment
challenges as technologies are brought to
scale. This Strategy does not attempt to
ignore these uncertainties, but rather to plot

84

a path which maintains flexibility in the future,
while ensuring we do not delay the action
we know is needed in the near-term. This
aims to provide the certainty to drive forward
investment and change, while allowing the
market to respond to new opportunities and
challenges which arise from the transition. The
UK Emissions Trading Scheme is a crucial way
in which we ensure that our pathway is rooted
in cost-effective, market-led solutions.

Chapter 2 – The Journey to Net Zero

UK Emissions Trading Scheme as a
key driver of our path to net zero
The UK ETS, a ‘cap and trade’ scheme,
is a market-based pricing mechanism to
incentivise and control the reduction of
emissions in a cost-effective way. A cap is set
on the total amount of certain greenhouse
gases that can be emitted by the sectors
covered by the scheme over a given period.
The cap is divided into allowances, and
participants receive or purchase allowances
which they can sell and buy with one another
as needed. This UK ETS cap will reduce over
time, providing a long-term market signal so
companies can plan and invest in abatement
accordingly – offering new trade and export
opportunities. The cap is initially set 5% below
the UK’s notional share of the EU ETS cap
for Phase IV of the EU ETS. We will consult
in the coming months on an appropriate cap
consistent with net zero.

To mitigate the risk of carbon leakage,
in which production and associated
greenhouse gas emissions are offshored
in ways that would not have happened if
the pricing of emissions across jurisdictions
was implemented in an equivalent way, we
currently give at risk sectors a proportion
of their allowances for free to reduce their
exposure to the carbon price. We initiated a
review of free allocation policy earlier this year
with a call for evidence and plan to consult in
the coming months, as part of a wider review
into the UK ETS. This review will focus on how
free allocations can be better targeted in line
with a reduction to the overall cap, while still
preserving the incentive to decarbonise.

The UK ETS acts as a cross-cutting policy
lever to drive market-based abatement,
incentivising industries to find the most
cost-effective solutions to decarbonise. This
ensures that, as industries develop lower
carbon processes, our path to net zero adapts
to cost-effective abatement routed in marketbased solutions. We have committed to
exploring expanding the UK ETS to the two
thirds of uncovered emissions and we will
provide a further update in due course.
It remains important, however, that we
develop policies which actively
support and encourage sectors to
decarbonise, rather than rely on
applying an emissions cap and
the consequent carbon pricing as
our sole mechanism. Our delivery
pathway provides a sound basis
to underpin those policies to
decarbonise, set out in the
chapters that follow.
85

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
28. Our analysis points to the following
essential planks that we can be confident
net zero will depend on. These underpin the
chapters that follow in this Strategy.
•

Integration of low carbon energy
sources in a smart and flexible
way. For example, fully decarbonising
our electricity system – in addition to
renewables, nuclear, and power CCUS –
could also rely on large-scale long duration
storage, as well as use of BECCS and
hydrogen-fired generation, to manage
peaks in demand. Hydrogen could require
substantial electricity for production via
electrolysis, but in turn could help improve
the efficiency of a high-renewables
electricity system by using excess supply
during periods of high generation and low
demand, as well as further energy storage.

•

Increasing diversity of energy sources
for end uses. The removal of unabated
fossil fuels from the system which currently
supply most of the energy requirements
in end use sectors, such as transport and
heating, has potential to lead to a greater
range of technologies and energy carriers
playing a part in future. This could create
some resilience, though there may not
always be scope for direct substitution.

•

Increasing energy efficiency.
The low carbon energy system depends
on overall energy demands reducing
significantly. This means all demand
sectors becoming far more efficient,
through adoption of new technologies,
better energy management, and direct
investment in energy efficiency measures.
Such measures can be considered ‘low
regret’ to pursue throughout the transition
and will, in turn, affect the level of energy
supply and carbon capture required
in the system.

86

•

Innovation for new technologies.
Green technology, including research
and development into new options, is a
cornerstone of the net zero journey. As well
as the supply-side technologies discussed
above, this also means new technologies
in end use sectors – for example, installing
zero carbon heating and delivering
zero emission surface transport, while
transforming the way we use natural
resources, farm our land, and manage our
waste. Different types of public and private
support are required to develop nascent
technologies and deploy known ones at
scale. Government has a role to play in a
financing offer, investment signalling, and
developing business models.

•

Green investment. Private investment
will provide most of the financing needed
to commercialise early technologies
and scale low carbon sectors. We need
additional net zero investment to reach c.
£50-60 billion/year in the late-2020s and
2030s. However, public finance and public
finance institutions will provide much of
the early investment, intervention, and
signalling that will create the conditions
for an acceleration of net zero investment.
This will also generate significant financial
savings if achieved and accompanied by
effective policy, thereby lowering the cost
of capital for investment.

•

Demand-side changes and public
engagement. The rollout of low carbon
solutions relies on positive public
reception and demand to adopt them.
Consumers need to have access to
the right technologies, understand their
benefits, and have confidence that they
will be protected if they use them. The
deployment of technologies should also
respond to their reception by consumers,
and go with the grain on consumer
behaviour and trends. We also need
our workforce to have the skills to meet
increasing demand, including in areas such
as housing retrofit, heat pump installation,
electric vehicle manufacturing, charge

Chapter 2 – The Journey to Net Zero
point installation and forestry. More widely,
low carbon and environmental practices
will require people and businesses to make
green choices, and government has a role
to play in making these as easy, attractive,
and accessible as possible. The net zero
journey must be a joint one and will be
affected by how engaged and supportive
the public are.
•

•

New standards and regulation. In certain
areas government will need to support and
complement market-led decarbonisation
with standards and regulation to ensure
that, where appropriate, green options are
pursued, while high carbon options are
phased out. This will help to accelerate
low regrets areas like energy efficiency,
such as ensuring our homes are built to
new standards, and high impact areas like
zero emission vehicles. It will also ensure
suppliers of higher-carbon technologies
and fuels provide low carbon alternatives,
driving deployment at scale.
Planning and infrastructure.
Low carbon solutions rely on transforming
the infrastructure needed to deliver them.
Increasing electricity generation needs to
be accompanied by building out a flexible
grid. Alongside dedicated hydrogen
infrastructure, new CO2 transport and
storage infrastructure is needed for the use
of CCUS which will require investment of
around £15 billion from now to the end of
the Carbon Budget 6 period. We need to
ensure that low carbon energy generation
can be connected to sources of demand
geographically, which means improving
knowledge of local circumstances and
opportunities for generation. We also
recognise the importance of the planning
system to common challenges like
combating climate change and supporting
sustainable growth.

•

Sustainable use of resources.
Net zero will mean maximising the value of
resources within a more efficient circular
economy. It will need a significant increase
in the use of certain types of resources –
critical minerals like lithium, graphite, and
cobalt, as well an increased demand on
resources like copper and steel – from
manufacturing green technologies to
building large-scale infrastructure. This
will require new robust supply chains
and provide economic opportunities, but
there will be environmental trade-offs, and
potential negative impacts on habitats,
biodiversity, and water resources to be
managed carefully. For example, ammonia
emissions from anaerobic digestion, which
can use waste as a feedstock, can also
affect biodiversity and health.

•

Understanding land use trade-offs.
Like other resources, our land is finite and
competition for it will need to be managed
as we rely on natural resources and use
land for multiple new purposes, such as
perennial energy crops and short rotation
forestry for energy generation, while
allowing for afforestation and peatland
restoration to sequester and avoid
emissions. We will also need to ensure net
zero is compatible with wider uses of land
such as agriculture, housing, infrastructure,
and environmental goals. These land use
challenges are exacerbated by the impact
of climate change on the availability of
productive land and water in future.

29. These features underpin the critical
activity driving decarbonisation across sectors
of the economy. A summary is provided
below up to 2035, which is not exhaustive
but focuses on the new technologies which
need to be developed and deployed over the
next decade. Policies and proposals to detail
how this activity is achieved are set out in
subsequent chapters.

87

88
Final Investment Decision
on Sizewell C

Decide on blending
hydrogen into gas grid
10% reduction
in oil and gas
production
emissions
by 2025

1GW low carbon
hydrogen
production
capacity

Net Zero consistent UK Emissions
Trading Scheme cap (by 2024 latest)

2021

2022

2023

Hydrogen
neighbourhood
trial

2024

Off-gas-grid
regulations for
non-domestic
buildings, subject
to consultation

Transformation of heat networks – introducing the market framework and zoning

Future Homes
& Future
Buildings
Standards
from 2025

Hydrogen
village trial

2025

Accelerate heat pump rollout, reducing costs by growing and expanding UK manufacturing

2026

2027

Off-gas-grid regulations for
domestic buildings, subject to consultation

Decide on role of hydrogen in buildings

4 CCUS clusters
capturing 6MtCO2
industrial emissions
per year by 2030

Potential CCUS
expansion
beyond clusters

50% reduction in oil
and gas production
emissions by 2050

5GW low carbon
hydrogen production
capacity

(e.g. nuclear, biomass)

Increased scale and range
of hydrogen production

First SMRs and AMR
demonstrator deployed

40 GW offshore wind

2028

2029

600,000 heat pumps installed per year

2030

13 million low carbon
homes, including 7-11
million heat pumps

Phase out new gas
boilers in line with
natural cycle so all
heating by 2050 is
net zero compatible

CCUS
capturing
9MtCO2
industrial
emissions per
year by 2035

Full
decarbonisation
of power

2035

Upgrading fuel poor
homes to EPC Band
C by 2030 where
affordable & practicable

Hydrogen town before
the end of the decade,
subject to hydrogen
decision

Deployment of low carbon heat increases and market continues to
transform – technology mix dependent on role of hydrogen
Depending on hydrogen decision, prepare for conversion of gas grid

At least 2 CCUS clusters by mid-2020s

Build CCUS capacity and infrastructure in clusters, including transport and storage networks

Introduction of demand-side measures (e.g. product standards, product labelling)

Improvements to energy efficiency of buildings to reduce emissions and make them ready for low-carbon heating technologies

Develop business models and negotiate
contracts for initial industrial CCUS,
including transport & storage

25% reduction in oil
and gas production
emissions by 2025

Large scale electrolytic and CCUS-enabled electrolytic hydrogen production

At least 1 CCUS plant by mid-2020s

SMR designs complete regulatory
approval for UK deployment

Increasing resource efficiency, energy efficiency and fuel switching (mainly to electricity and low carbon hydrogen)

Finalise hydrogen business model
and low carbon standard

Launch Net Zero
Hydrogen Fund

Review barriers to electrification of oil and
gas production

Small scale electrolytic hydrogen production

Development and implementation of regulatory and market frameworks for hydrogen

Nuclear roadmap
for deployment

Decision on next steps for long duration storage

Hinkley Point C operational (EDF
estimate)

Note: Markers indicate the year milestones will occur rather than the precise point in a given year, while arrows of activity are inclusive of the years in which they start and finish

Heat &
Buildings

Industry

Fuel
Supply &
Hydrogen

Power

Opening of Allocation Round 4 – UK’s largest ever renewables auction
(including a minimum budget for floating offshore wind)
Nuclear fusion strategy

6 longer duration storage demonstrations

Strategic approach to energy networks, smart technologies, and market reform to incorporate low carbon and flexible technologies efficiently

Building out electricity infrastructure, especially in the 2020s

Market mechanisms continue to evolve to support electricity system decarbonisation, especially from the 2030s

Figure 16: high-level essential activity across sectors to 2035

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Launch Farming Innovation Programme

Biomass Strategy to determine amount of
sustainable biomass available to UK

Piloting and early roll out of new environmental land
management schemes

2022

2023

Biomass Strategy to inform role
that BECCS can play and options
for deployment

Consult on innovative financing
models for DACCS & other GGRs

2024

Greenhouse gas removals business models enable early ‘First of a Kind’ plants

2025

Review options
for deploying
GGRs at scale,
following
demonstration
competition

2026

2027

2028

2029

GGRs deployed
at scale,
reaching
around 23MtCO2
captured
per year

Recycle 65%
municipal waste
by 2035

Reduce amount of
municipal waste
going to landfill to
10% by 2035

All new cars
and vans sold
zero emission at
the tailpipe

6,000 high
powered EV
chargepoints
on England’s
strategic road
network

2035

Review pace of GGRs
scale up

Engineered removals
capturing at least
5MtCO2
per year from 2030

2030

‘First of a kind’ greenhouse gas removals deploy at scale & increasing

Work with water
companies to plant 11m
trees by 2030

Hydroflurocarbonson
market reduced by
79% on 2015 levels
by 2030

Rollout of environmental land management schemes: Sustainable Farming Incentive, Local Nature Recovery
scheme, Landscape Recovery scheme

Sustainable increase in tree-planting, peatland restoration and perennial energy crops

30,000 hectares tree planting
per year across the UK from 2025 onwards
35,000 hectares peatland
restored by 2025

Sale of new petrol &
diesel cars & vans
phased out from 2030

50% of all journey
in towns & cities
cycled or walked

Explore introduction of proven agricultural innovation measures, potentially including the use of feed additives for livestock

Decision on HGVs technology in mid-2020s

Regulatory framework unlocks capital for early projectsand long term market

CCUS transport and storage rollout provides capacity for capture CO2

Launch of Farming for
Net Zero campaign

Interim outcome of
land use change
analyses inform
approach

2021

New CO2 wregulatory
framework for all road
vehicles introduced

Ramp up supply and production of sustainable aviation fuels, and deployment of new zero emission vessels and fuels
Mandate supply of sustainable
aviation fuel, subject to consultation

Explore policies to work towards the near elimnation of biodegradable municipal waste to landfill by 2028

Continue to develop evidence of land-use synergies and tradeoffs to inform policy approach

Treble tree planting rates by the end of this parliament

R&D into low carbon aviation & shipping

Note: Markers indicate the year milestones will rather than the precise point in a given year, while arrows of activity are inclusive of the year they run to start and finish

Greenhouse Gas
Removals

Natural
Resources,
Waste
& F-gases

Transport

Hydrogen trials: buses, HGVs, rail, shipping

Continue to accelerate the uptake of zero emission vehicles

Increasing targets for low carbon fuels and development of key infrastructure, including ongoing rail electrification and EV chargepoints

Accelerate modal shift to public and active transport

Chapter 2 – The Journey to Net Zero

89

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Endnotes
1

BEIS analysis (2021), ‘Final UK greenhouse gas emission national statistics: 1990 to 2019’,
https://www.gov.uk/government/statistics/final-uk-greenhouse-gas-emissions-nationalstatistics-1990-to-2019

2

HM Treasury (2021), ‘Net Zero Review: Final Report’.

3

OBR (2021), ‘Fiscal Risks Report’, https://obr.uk/frr/fiscal-risks-report-july-2021/

4

BEIS (2021), ‘Impact Assessment for the sixth carbon budget’, https://www.legislation.gov.uk/
ukdsi/2021/9780348222616/impacts

5

Production methods include: electrolysis, which splits water into hydrogen and oxygen using
electricity; steam methane reformation with CCUS, which uses heat, steam, and catalysts
to break methane (from natural gas) into hydrogen and carbon dioxide which is then stored
underground; and biomass gasification with CCUS, where heating biomass in special
conditions produces a mix of gases including hydrogen and carbon dioxide which is used or
permanently stored.

6

BEIS analysis based on 2019 data from the BEIS, Digest of UK Energy Statistics, https://www.
gov.uk/government/collections/digest-of-uk-energy-statistics-dukes#2021

7

These scenarios have been developed using whole system cost-optimisation modelling (UK
TIMES) to produce a feasible range of least-cost solutions and deployment requirements for
given emissions targets.

8

Terrawatt-hour is a unit of energy equal to one trillion watts for one hour to indicate energy
generation and demand.

9

Emissions from Greenhouse Gas Removals only include engineered removals. Nature-based
solutions, such as afforestation, are included in the Agriculture and LULUCF subsector. For
further detail see the Natural Resources, Waste & F-Gases and Greenhouse Gas Removals
chapters.

10

Estimates of historical UK GHG emissions are revised annually to incorporate methodological
improvements, updated data and changes to international guidelines. The percentage
reductions implied by CB levels are therefore subject to change.

11

BEIS analysis (2021), ‘Final UK greenhouse gas emission national statistics: 1990 to 2019’,
https://www.gov.uk/government/statistics/final-uk-greenhouse-gas-emissions-nationalstatistics-1990-to-2019

12

Transport emissions include emissions from domestic transport and international aviation and
shipping.

13

BEIS (2021), ‘UK Hydrogen Strategy’, https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/ukhydrogen-strategy

90

Chapter 2 – The Journey to Net Zero

91

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Reducing
Emissions
across the
Economy

3

Chapter

93

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

3i. Power
Delivering a decarbonised power system by 2035
Our Key Commitments

94

•

Take action so that by 2035, all our electricity will come from low carbon sources,
subject to security of supply, bringing forward the government’s commitment to a
fully decarbonised power system by 15 years.

•

Accelerate deployment of low-cost renewable generation, such as wind and
solar through the Contracts for Difference scheme by undertaking a review of the
frequency of the CfD auctions.

•

Deliver 40GW of offshore wind, including 1GW of innovative floating offshore
wind by 2030.

•

Implement the Dispatchable Power Agreement (DPA) to support the deployment of
first of a kind power CCUS plant(s).

•

Secure a final investment decision on a large-scale nuclear plant by the end of this
Parliament whilst taking measures to inform investment decisions during the next
Parliament on further nuclear projects as we work towards our net zero target.

•

Adopt a new approach to onshore and offshore electricity networks to incorporate
new low carbon generation and demand in the most efficient manner, taking
account of the environment and local communities.

•

Deliver the actions in our recent Smart Systems and Flexibility Plan and Energy
Digitalisation Strategy to maximise system flexibility.

•

Provide £380m for our world-leading offshore wind sector, investing in supply
chains, infrastructure and early-coordination of offshore transmission networks,
securing jobs and benefitting communities across the UK.

•

Reform system governance so that the whole system can achieve our net zero
ambitions and meet consumers’ needs.

•

Drive market-wide rollout of smart meters with a new four-year policy framework
that introduces fixed minimum annual installation targets for energy suppliers from 1
January 2022.

•

Consider whether broader reforms to our market frameworks are needed to unlock
the full potential of low carbon technologies to take us all the way to net zero.

•

Ensure that consumers pay a fair, affordable price for their energy, and can engage
with a retail energy market that offers the products and services required to make
choices that support net zero.

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy
•

Ensure the planning system can support the deployment of low carbon energy
infrastructure.

•

Explore the system need and case for further market intervention for long duration
storage and hydrogen in power.

Progress to date
1. The transformation of the power sector
over the last 30 years provides a strong basis
on which to move forward, on our way to
reaching net zero emissions by 2050 across
the UK economy. Decarbonising the power
sector has led the UK’s efforts to reduce GHG
emissions overall.
2. In 2019, net UK GHG emissions from
the power sector totalled 58 MtCO2e and
accounted for 11% of total net UK GHG
emissions.1 This is a reduction of 72%
between 1990 and 2019. In 1990, the
power sector accounted for 23% of UK
GHG emissions.2 This has largely been
achieved through natural gas generation
and renewables displacing coal, and more
energy efficient appliances contributing to the
reduction of electricity demand. Today, the
country gets over half of its power from low
carbon technologies.
3. In 2020, we published the Ten Point Plan
for a Green Industrial Revolution and the
Energy White Paper, including commitments
to put the power sector on an ambitious
decarbonisation pathway over the next

decade. Since then we have launched a
£17.5 million competition to support innovative
floating wind ideas for industry and initiated
this year’s Contract for Difference allocation
round, with a £200 million budget for offshore
wind and £24 million for floating offshore wind.
On delivering new and advanced nuclear
power, we have committed to reaching a final
investment decision on a large-scale nuclear
plant this parliament, subject to value for
money and approvals. We are in negotiations
with the developer on Sizewell C project in
Suffolk. We have since taken further steps:
in June, we announced that phasing out of
unabated coal generation will be brought
forward by one year, to October 2024.3 In
July, we published the Smart Systems and
Flexibility plan 2021 and the UK’s first Energy
Digitalisation Strategy, jointly developed with
InnovateUK. Our approach includes measures
to facilitate flexibility from consumers,
removing barriers to flexibility on the grid
including long duration storage, reforming
markets to reward flexibility, and digitalising
our energy system.

95

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Net zero transition and opportunities for the sector
Our 2050 vision and how
we get there
4. Reliable and affordable power is a
foundation of a modern industrial economy.
It is also critical in decarbonising the economy
and achieving our net zero goal cost
effectively. Although ambitious decarbonisation
is required in every sector, deep reductions in
emissions from power could offset the need
for relatively more expensive decarbonisation
efforts elsewhere. Our exposure to volatile
gas prices shows the importance of our plan
for a strong home-grown renewable power
sector to strengthen our energy security into
the future.
5. The next 30 years will see a decisive
and permanent shift away from the use
of unabated oil and gas as the engine of
our economy. In the Energy White Paper,
published in December 2020, we set out
what this means for the power sector.4 Low
carbon power is expected to become the
predominant form of energy in 2050. It will
account for approximately 50% or higher
share of final energy consumption, up from
10% in 2019,5 as it displaces petrol in light
vehicles and gas for heat in homes.

96

6. Based on our whole-system modelling,
by 2050, emissions associated with power
could need to drop by 95-98% compared to
2019, down to 1-3 MtCO2e. In the interim, to
meet our NDC and CB6 targets, we expect
emissions could fall by 71-76% by 2030 and
80-85% by 2035, compared to 2019 levels.
These figures are based on an indicative
power sector pathway contributing to the
whole-economy net zero and interim targets
(see figure 17 below).

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy

Figure 17: Indicative power emissions pathway to 2037
250

Emissions (MtCO2e)

200

150

100

50

Pre-EWP & NZS policies
and proposals
NZS delivery
pathway

0
1990

1995

2000

2005

2010

2015

2020

2025

2030

2035

2040

2045

2050
Range

2050

Source: BEIS analysis

7. Even with major improvements in overall
energy efficiency and increased flexibility in
the energy system, this could represent a
potential doubling of demand. This would
require a four-fold increase in low carbon
electricity generation and significant expansion
of the networks that transport it to where it
is needed.
8. We will need to achieve this whilst
maintaining a reliable and affordable supply of
power. We cannot compromise the essential
resilience and reliability of the energy system.
It is essential for the critical services we rely
on – from hospitals to traffic lights and mobile
devices – and its reliability will be fundamental
to consumer confidence in adopting new ways
of powering their cars or heating their homes.

9. Our understanding of the role of power
in 2050, what the system will look like and
the level of demand it will need to meet, will
evolve over time. This will be informed by the
approach to decarbonising other sectors,
such as the extent to which hydrogen is
used for heat, and what we learn about the
cost and achievability of those approaches.
It will also be informed by the availability and
costs of GHG removal technologies, such as
bioenergy with carbon capture and storage
(BECCS) and direct air carbon capture and
storage (DACCS).

97

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
10. The Energy White Paper set out our goal
of a fully decarbonised, reliable, and low-cost
power system by 2050. CB6 represents
a very significant increase in the pace of
power sector decarbonisation, coupled with
increased demand due to the accelerated
action in other sectors dependent on low
carbon electricity. Although the Energy White
Paper envisaged achieving an overwhelmingly
decarbonised power system during the 2030s,
we have since increased our ambition further.
By 2035, all our electricity will need to come
from low carbon sources, subject to security
of supply, bringing forward the government’s
commitment to a fully decarbonised power
system by 15 years, whilst meeting a 40-60%
increase in demand.
11. However, the Energy White Paper’s
fundamental approach remains unchanged. A
low-cost, net zero consistent electricity system
is most likely to be composed predominantly
of wind and solar generation, whether in
2035 or 2050. To ensure the system is
reliable, intermittent renewables need to be
complemented by known technologies such
as nuclear and power CCUS, and flexible
technologies such as interconnectors,
electricity storage, and demand-side
response. These flexible technologies can
help to minimise the amount of generation
and network capacity needed to meet our
demand needs, for example, by matching new
sources of demand to renewable generation
both nationally and locally. To do this, the new
critical supply chains for these technologies
also need to be resilient to ensure the
UK can build the capacity it needs for a
reliable system.

98

12. Our Carbon Budget 6 trajectory
suggests that we will need to build all of
these technologies at, or close to, their
maximum technical limit, to meet the twin
challenge of accelerating decarbonisation and
servicing increased demand. This represents
a considerable delivery challenge. While
unabated gas generation currently plays
a critical role in keeping the UK electricity
system secure and stable, it will be used less
frequently in the future, running only when the
system most needs it for security of supply.
13. The government is actively taking steps
to bring forward low carbon technologies
capable of replicating the role of unabated
gas in the electricity system, including
CCUS-enabled generation, hydrogen-fired
generation, BECCS, and flexible storage. We
are also bringing forward measures to ensure
that any new build combustion power stations,
including gas, can convert to clean alternatives
in the future. We issued a call for evidence on
our plans for Decarbonisation Readiness in
the summer and subject to feedback on the
proposals and parliamentary time, we aim to
implement these requirements by 2023.6
14. The use of hydrogen to generate
electricity can reduce reliance on unabated
natural gas. It can also provide additional
system flexibility if produced through
electrolysis and where there is hydrogen
storage. This could contribute to energy
security, lowering emissions and system costs.
There are trade-offs between the deliverability,
optimal fit, and other benefits of emerging
technologies versus known technologies.
Waiting for emerging technologies before
deciding to deploy nuclear and power CCUS
at scale could put our CB6 and net zero
ambitions at risk. Over the next decade
we need to continue to deploy all known
low carbon technologies at scale to ensure
optionality is maintained, whilst developing
new options to mitigate delivery risk and
reduce costs.

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy
15. However, a reliable power system is
not only about having a balanced mix of
generation technologies. We also need to
ensure that the networks can transport
electricity to where it is required in a
cost‑effective manner, and to enable crucial
system services such as frequency response.
Markets should determine the best solution
for such a system. We are not targeting a
particular solution but will rely on competition
to spur investment in technologies which are
cheaper and more efficient; and on innovation
to reduce the cost of existing options. The
government’s role is to ensure a market
framework which encourages effective
competition and delivers an affordable, secure,
and reliable system that is, consistent with net
zero emissions. We will intervene to address
any potential market failures and continue to
invest in innovation which helps commercialise
new technologies and increase the options
available to meet this challenge.
16. The CCC’s Independent Assessment
of UK Climate Risk (June 2021)7 set out
that climate change will likely result in more
extreme weather that has the potential
to negatively impact GB’s power sector.
We continue to work closely with industry,
regulators, sector bodies, and other
stakeholders to ensure that our electricity
system is resilient and secure, including to the
impacts of climate change.

Seizing new opportunities
17. Transforming the power system offers
significant opportunities for UK businesses to
exploit technology and know-how in domestic
and global markets. Investments in innovation
will enable new technologies to deliver benefits
to the system and this will be crucial to help
us meeting our carbon reduction targets.
Innovation will create value by accelerating
the commercialisation of low carbon power
systems. It can bring costs down, enable
us to preserve and develop options and
bring forward information to reduce future
uncertainty. Renewable energy can also help

contribute to our industrial ‘SuperPlaces’,
providing plentiful low carbon electricity to
enable the low carbon technologies such as
hydrogen, which also offers a renewed era for
our industrial heartlands.
18. To fully decarbonise the power sector
at the pace we have set out whilst meeting
increasing demand, total public and private
investment of £280-400 billion is needed
in generation capacity and flexible assets
– around £150-270 billion of this reflects
increased ambition from Carbon Budget 6.
The electricity transmission and distribution
networks will also both require significant
expenditures with an additional £20-30 billion
required by 2037 to maintain and reinforce
Great Britain’s electricity network.
19. The offshore wind sector alone will
see over £20 billion in private investment
by 2030, and in the last six months around
£1.5 billion of investment has already been
announced. This includes two purpose-built
manufacturing ports and five offshore wind
turbine component factories.
20. Decarbonising the power sector will
regenerate communities and open up new
employment opportunities right around the
UK. Based on current estimates, policies and
proposals to reduce emissions in the sector
could support up to 59,000 jobs in 2024 and
up to 120,000 jobs in 2030.
21. For example, the offshore wind sector
could support up to 60,000 jobs by 2030,
including in the supply chain, with further
employment opportunities during construction.
Increased deployment of storage and demand
side flexibility could support up to 7,000
jobs, levelling up the power sector across
Great Britain.

99

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Policies and proposals
Prioritising critical system enablers
22. Crucially, a whole system approach
puts more emphasis on addressing critical
system enablers. These measures will
integrate different low carbon technologies
into a coherent, single entity and optimise the
system most efficiently and cost-effectively, in
the interest of consumers.
23. This means adopting a new approach to
developing and delivering electricity networks,
both onshore and offshore, to ensure that new
low carbon generation can be connected to
growing sources of demand. The Offshore
Transmission Network Review (OTNR)
is transforming how the connections for
offshore wind and other offshore transmission
infrastructure is planned, designed, and
delivered with changes being progressed
across the near, medium, and long term.
Coordination in how we connect offshore
wind can potentially save consumers between
£3-6 billion by 2050 and reduce the number
of assets and onshore landing points by
up to 50%.8 Ofgem has recently consulted
upon regulatory changes to enable offshore
coordination for in-flight projects, including
potentially allowing anticipatory investment.
BEIS is currently consulting on a new
long‑term policy regime for offshore networks.
Onshore, we welcome electricity networks’
efforts to invest strategically ahead of need in
new capacity, where it is efficient to do so, as
well as Ofgem’s work to create a price control
framework which allows and encourages this.
In recognition of the essential role of electricity
networks as an enabler of net zero, we will
publish, jointly with Ofgem, an Electricity
Network Strategy, which will set out how we
will facilitate an agile, flexible onshore network
that allows the rapid, transformational change
required while responding to consumer
and energy system needs. This will include
our plans to introduce competition in the
100

building, ownership, and operation of onshore
network assets, on which we published a
consultation in August.
24. We will look to deliver these changes
whilst minimising the impacts on citizens
and communities. Network companies work
closely with local and transport authorities and
are incentivised to deliver network upgrades
as efficiently as possible both domestically
and through the RIIO price control framework,
for example by laying larger cables to avoid
reopening roads twice. Connection upgrades
are becoming increasingly digitalised for
domestic customers looking to install a
heat pump or electric vehicle chargepoints.
In cases where network upgrades require
a temporary power disruption, network
companies are required to give notice to
customers of planned outages. Advice and
ongoing information is also provided including
support for vulnerable customers, such as
providing generators for customers who are
medically dependent on electricity.
25. The deployment of smart technologies
and flexibility will underpin our energy security
and the transition to net zero. Flexibility from
technologies such as energy storage, smart
and bidirectional charging of electric vehicles,
flexible heating systems, and interconnection
could save up to £10 billion per year by
2050 by reducing the amount of generation
and network needed to decarbonise.9
These technologies offset the need for more
expensive capital investment in traditional
infrastructure, as well as help optimise how
efficiently the system operates by better
integrating intermittent renewables into the
system and reducing peak demand.

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy
26. A key enabler for demand side flexibility
will be smart meters, which enable innovative
products and services such as smart
time‑of‑use tariffs. These tariffs reward
consumers financially for using energy
outside peak times, when demand is low or
when there is excess generation available.
Technologies such as electric vehicles and
smart appliances can be automatically
programmed to take advantage of cheaper
rates, cost-effectively integrating them
with renewable energy sources and saving
consumers money. At the end of June 2021,
there were 25.2 million smart and advanced
meters in homes and small businesses
across Great Britain, representing 46%
smart coverage.10
27. The Smart Systems and Flexibility Plan
sets out a vision, analysis, and actions for
delivering a smart and flexible energy system.
We will facilitate flexibility from consumers and
remove barriers to flexibility on the grid, both
for small-scale and large-scale long-duration
electricity storage, as well as driving policy to
increase interconnector capacity. The Plan
also sets out actions to improve market design
and coordination so that flexibility providers
can secure revenues across multiple markets.
Data and digitalisation are a core aspect of
the future system; we have set out a strategic
approach to digitalisation and opening data
across the energy sector through the Energy
Digitalisation Strategy.

28. This transformation of the energy system
means our approach to system governance
needs to evolve to help the whole energy
system achieve our net zero ambitions and
meet consumers’ needs at the least cost.
BEIS and Ofgem have jointly consulted on
the future of system operation.11 We set out
proposals for an expert and impartial Future
System Operator (FSO) with responsibilities
across both the electricity and gas systems,
to drive progress towards net zero while
maintaining energy security and minimising
costs for consumers. These proposals set out
how detailed expertise gained from system
operation could be used to provide a whole
energy system approach to coordination
and planning while ensuring that market
participants and government has confidence
in the impartiality of the FSO’s advice
and facilitation of markets, competition,
and system development. We have also,
jointly with Ofgem, consulted on the future
governance of energy codes, which set out
the detailed technical and commercial rules
for the system, building on the government
and Ofgem’s joint review of code governance
and the work of the independent panel on
engineering standards.12
29. Significant progress towards net zero can
happen, and is already happening, within our
existing market framework. This combines
markets for wholesale power, balancing, and
system services with a Contracts for Difference
scheme (CfD) for low carbon generation and a
capacity market to ensure security of supply.
We have recently published a Call for Evidence
on actions to better align the capacity market
with net zero,13 including potential actions
to encourage the participation of more low
carbon capacity. However, it will be necessary
to consider whether broader reforms to our
market frameworks are needed to unlock the
full potential of low carbon technologies to
take us to net zero.

101

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
30. Throughout the transition, consumers
should pay a fair, affordable price for their
electricity, and be able to engage with a retail
energy market that offers the products and
services that allow them to make choices that
support net zero. To support these aims, the
government is considering what reforms to
the retail energy market are needed to support
progress to net zero through the 2020s,
including the role of suppliers and how they
are regulated.14 In considering these reforms,
the government will take account of the
lessons of the current market, in which high
gas prices have placed financial pressures
on suppliers. In the future, the market will
need to be resilient and sustainable, and
continue to protect consumers as we move
to a net zero system. The market will also
need to remain competitive, and consumers
will need to be engaged with positive choices
about their energy supply. To support these
choices, consumers should receive accurate
information about the carbon content of
their energy products, and we will consider
the case for reforming the framework which
underpins green electricity tariffs and wider
environmental carbon accounting schemes.
31. We will also need to address
cross‑cutting, overarching enablers such
as ensuring the planning system has the
capacity to support the deployment of low
carbon energy infrastructure, while also
representing the interests of the environment
and of the communities which host this
infrastructure. We will do this by updating the
energy National Policy Statements to provide
greater clarity on the need and urgency for
low carbon infrastructure, exploring ways of
streamlining processes through the Nationally
Significant Infrastructure Projects (NSIP)
reform programme and addressing issues
at a strategic level, for example through the
Offshore Wind Enabling Actions Programme.

102

32. We will need to consider how low
carbon energy infrastructure can be
deployed at an unprecedented scale and
pace sympathetically alongside the interests
of communities and consistent with our
obligations to a sustainable environment, both
land-based and marine. We will also need to
streamline the consenting process to ensure
that the deployment needed to stay on track
for our 2030 and CB6 targets is delivered.
33. In addition, we will need to grow
our supply of skilled workers and further
strengthen the UK supply chain to service
the demands of energy infrastructure,
creating economic opportunity for citizens
and communities across the UK. The
£160 million announced in the Ten Point
Plan, has substantially grown our industrial
capabilities in the offshore wind sector. To
help keep us on track for our Carbon Budget
6 and net zero targets we will need to deploy
substantial volumes of floating offshore wind.
Our target of 1 GW floating offshore wind by
2030 is a stepping stone to further growth
in the UK, which will also develop jobs and
opportunities in the associated industrial
supply chain putting us at the forefront of this
new technology that can utilise our North and
Celtic Seas. We will build on this with £380m
for our world-leading offshore wind sector,
investing in supply chains, infrastructure and
early-coordination of offshore transmission
networks, securing jobs and benefitting
communities across the UK.

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy

Supporting sustained deployment of
low carbon generation
34. While our strategic approach to
decarbonising power in line with CB6 is
predicated on a whole system approach,
with a key role for the market in delivering
the most efficient solution, part of the CB6
challenge is nonetheless one of deploying low
carbon electricity generation infrastructure
at an unprecedented scale and pace whilst
maintaining optionality for more nascent
sources for power generation, such as
hydrogen, to help reduce the risk of delivery.
In a scenario with higher electricity demand, if
there is no hydrogen generation in the power
sector, we are likely to need to build all known
technologies at or close to their maximum
deployment potential by the mid-2030s.
35. In the Energy White Paper, we committed
to a target of 40 GW of offshore wind by
2030, including 1 GW floating wind, alongside
the expansion of other low-cost renewable
technologies. We need to continue to drive
rapid deployment of renewables, for example
offshore wind, so we can reach substantially
greater capacity beyond 2030, and accelerate
the cost reduction and commercialisation of
floating offshore wind. As we decarbonise
our electricity system our wholesale prices
will become less exposed to fluctuations in
global fossil fuel prices, and we would expect
wholesale prices to be lower.
36. CB6 also requires a sustained increase
to the deployment of land-based renewables
such as locally supported onshore wind and
solar in the 2020s and beyond. We will seek
to ensure a facilitative environment for the
deployment of unsubsidised rooftop solar to
complement our market-based approach of
ensuring exporters receive a fair price through
the Smart Export Guarantee. We also have
one of the best ocean energy resources in the
world and we continue to explore the role of
marine technologies in net zero.

37. This step change in renewable
deployment will be achieved primarily by
providing ongoing support through the CfD
scheme, starting with allocation round 4 this
December – which will be the biggest-ever
round of our flagship renewable energy
scheme. The CfD will be key to delivering
the levels of generation required by 2030. To
support this step change we will undertake a
review of the frequency of the CfD auctions.
Looking beyond this, ensuring we retain
effective means to provide long-term stability
will be crucial throughout the 2030s to achieve
affordable, scalable deployment.
38. We also need to increase our nuclear
capacity, which is why we said in the Energy
White Paper that we will aim to bring at
least one large-scale nuclear project to the
point of final investment decision by the end
of this Parliament, subject to clear value
for money and all relevant approvals. In
December 2020 we announced the start of
formal negotiations on Sizewell C and those
negotiations are ongoing. To facilitate a
decision this Parliament, we plan to establish
the Regulated Asset Base model to fund new
nuclear projects at a low cost of capital, saving
consumers money.
39. The government will also take measures
to inform investment decisions during the
next Parliament on further nuclear projects
as we work towards our net zero target.
This will include consideration of largescale and advanced nuclear technologies,
including Small Modular Reactors (SMRs)
and potentially Advanced Modular Reactors
(AMRs). As part of this, we are announcing
a new £120 million Future Nuclear Enabling
Fund to provide targeted support in relation
to barriers to entry. Further details of how this
fund will operate will be published in 2022
alongside details of a roadmap for deployment
that takes into account value for money.

103

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
40. We are also providing funding for a
SMR design through our £385m Advanced
Nuclear Fund and are progressing plans for an
Advanced Modular Reactor demonstrator in
the early 2030s. Whether large- or small-scale
projects, there remain a number of possible
sites available for these options, including
Wylfa in North Wales.
41. To help deliver emissions reductions to
keep us on track for Carbon Budget 6, we will
need significant expansion of power CCUS
beyond the Energy White Paper commitment
of one power plant by 2030. To do this we will
implement the Dispatchable Power Agreement
(DPA), and seek to bring forward at least one
power CCUS plant in the mid 2020’s through
the CCUS Cluster Sequencing Process,
subject to the outcome of that process
including value for money and affordability
considerations. We will also aim to begin
competitive allocation in the 2020’s to support
a future pipeline of projects and cost reduction
via increased deployment and competitive
tension. Finally, we will continue to review and
evolve the policy framework to stimulate the
delivery of future power CCUS projects.

104

42. Bioenergy has already played a significant
role in decarbonising the electricity system,
accounting for 12.6% of total renewables
generation in 2019.15 Technological changes
mean that biomass usage can now go beyond
carbon-neutral and deliver negative emissions
by combining it with carbon capture and
storage (BECCS). As committed to in the
Energy White Paper, we will publish a Biomass
Strategy in 2022 that will set out how BECCS
could be deployed. As is the case with all
UK biomass use, any future BECCS projects
will need to meet stringent sustainability and
air quality requirements for the production
and use of biomass, as will be set out in the
Biomass Strategy.

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy

Reducing delivery risk
43. Although we need to ensure we can
deploy existing low carbon generation
technologies at close to their maximum to
reach Carbon Budget 6, we also need to
de-risk the delivery challenge. We will pursue
innovative technology solutions which ease
the pressure, including:
•

Exploring the system need and case for
market intervention for long duration
storage and hydrogen in power –
both technologies have the potential to
provide important low carbon peaking
capacity during periods of high demand
and over extreme events such as long
periods of low wind. Long duration
storage technologies could provide a
range of system stability services such
as the provision of inertia. An expansion
of hydrogen in power could also reduce
the need to build other technologies at
the limit of what is technically feasible and
could be a form of storage for excess
power generated by renewables. We are
supporting innovation in longer duration
energy storage projects through a
£68 million competition for prototypes and
demonstrators;16

•

Reducing emissions from the energy
from waste sector – emissions from
energy from waste plants represent a
significant part of the residual emissions in
the power sector. We are exploring options
to reduce emissions from these plants
within the power sector, including whether
support for CCUS at Energy from Waste
plants could be provided by the Industrial
Carbon Capture Business Model. The
Government’s approach in respect of this
is still under consideration and we intend
to provide further details later this year;

•

Maximising system flexibility, including
through storage technologies, demand
side response, and interconnectors –
to integrate renewables, balancing the
intermittency of renewables and helping to
maintain system operability;

•

Promoting more ambitious and
sustained demand reduction and
energy efficiency measures to reduce
overall power demand – allowing
demand to increase unconstrained as
we electrify other parts of the economy
could prevent us hitting very low levels of
emissions during the 2030s.

105

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Working together across the UK
Examples of policy action by the Scottish Government, Welsh Government,
and Northern Ireland Executive
UK Government is working across all
levels of government and with Devolved
Administrations to ensure consistent action
to reduce emissions across the power sector,
and across the UK.

A further £80 million of this funding will
be directed to projects supporting the
development of carbon capture, utilisation and
storage and negative emission technology
projects in Scotland.

Wales

The purpose of the hydrogen funding
programme is to support the delivery of the
Scottish Government’s upcoming Hydrogen
Action Plan, the development of a hydrogen
economy in Scotland, to help overcome
challenges to scaling up hydrogen production
and to deliver lasting benefits for business and
communities.

The Welsh Government has supported the
development of four regional energy strategies
that identify the scale of change needed
to reach a low carbon energy system and
establish regional priorities for energy. This
work models future demand for power, heat
and transport, and assesses the economic
impact of delivering the proposed ambitions.
In addition, Conwy and Newport local
authority areas are piloting local area energy
planning. This work will identify the low-regret
actions to decarbonise a local energy system
and can be used by grid network operators to
inform their infrastructure investment.

Scotland
The Scottish Government’s £62 million Energy
Transition Fund will support Scotland’s energy
sector and the North East, over the next five
years, to make progress on energy transition
as Scotland moves toward a net zero
society by 2045.
The Emerging Energy Technologies Fund is a
£180 million package of funding over five years
that will provide capital support to accelerate
low carbon infrastructure projects that will
be essential to deliver net zero. The Fund
will make £100 million available to support
hydrogen projects in line with the Scottish
Government’s Hydrogen Policy Statement.

106

Northern Ireland
Northern Ireland has already demonstrated
its commitment to decarbonisation of the
power sector through rolling out renewable
electricity generation under the Northern
Ireland Renewables Obligation (NIRO) - 45.4%
of the electricity consumed in Northern Ireland
between 1 July 2020 and 30 June 2021
was generated from renewable sources.
Building on this achievement and with a
view to meeting the ambition of net zero
by 2050, the Minister for the Economy, in
considering requirements for the NI Energy
Strategy (to be published by end of 2021), has
set a renewable electricity target of at least
70% by 2030.

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy

3ii. Fuel Supply and Hydrogen
Transitioning to a low carbon future
Our Key Commitments
•

An ambition for 5 GW UK low carbon hydrogen production capacity by 2030.

•

We have set up the Industrial Decarbonisation and Hydrogen Revenue Support
(IDHRS) scheme to fund our new hydrogen and industrial carbon capture business
models. We will be providing up to £140m to establish the scheme, including up
to £100m to award contracts of up to 250MW of electrolytic hydrogen production
capacity in 2023 with further allocation in 2024.

•

Implement the £240 million Net Zero Hydrogen Fund and finalise the Hydrogen
Business Model and the Low Carbon Hydrogen Standard in 2022.

•

Work with the sector to help develop a low carbon fuel strategy for transport for
publication in 2022, as announced in the recent Transport Decarbonisation Plan,
and deliver commitments on sustainable aviation fuels.

•

Work with stakeholders to address barriers to electrification of oil and gas
production by Q4 2022 and continue to drive down routine flaring and venting.

•

Regulate the oil and gas sector in a way that minimises GHG emissions, notably
through the revised Oil and Gas Authority strategy, which empowers the OGA to
assess operators’ plans to reduce their emissions levels against effectively a net
zero test, and establish a climate compatibility checkpoint for future licensing on the
UK Continental Shelf.

Progress to date
1. In 2019 net UK GHG emissions from fuel
supply totalled 26 MtCO2e and accounted for
5% of total net UK GHG emissions. Emissions
today mainly derive from fossil fuels and can
be attributed to stages of the supply journey.17
This chapter covers all aspects of fuel
supply emissions:
•

•

Transportation (‘midstream’) –
transportation and storage of oil and gas
including pipelines, pumping stations,
trucks, and transcontinental tankers;

Extraction (‘upstream’) – exploration
and production of oil and gas including
drilling, surfacing resources and onshore
processing at gas plants;
107

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
•

Refinement (‘downstream’) – refining oil
into products including transport fuels,
bitumen, lubricating oils, liquid petroleum
gasses, heating oils, marine fuels,
polymers, solvents, and alcohols. Refining
emissions are counted as part of the
industry sector but are discussed in this
chapter to take a holistic view of supply.

2. Overall, between 1990 and 2019, net
UK GHG emissions from fuel supply have
decreased by 61%. North Sea production
has fallen; older, more polluting installations
have been decommissioned whilst cleaner
ones have been brought online; regulatory
frameworks have supported efficiency gains;
coal mines have closed; and iron pipes have
been replaced with plastic to reduce methane
leakage across the gas network.

3. We have also made progress in low carbon
fuel production. An estimated 10-27 TWh of
hydrogen production now exists today but
is almost all derived from fossil fuels without
carbon capture and for use outside of the
energy system.18 In 2019, renewable fuels
supplied under the Renewable Transport
Fuel Obligation (RFTO) accounted for 5% of
total road and non-road mobile machinery
fuel. This mainly consisted of biodiesel and
bioethanol but also included biomethane and
renewable hydrogen.19
4. Building on the Ten Point Plan, we recently
published the UK Hydrogen Strategy and
associated consultations on a hydrogen
business model, the Net Zero Hydrogen Fund
(NZHF) and a low carbon hydrogen standard,
outlining our approach to kickstarting the
production of low carbon hydrogen and
developing a robust UK hydrogen economy.

Net zero transition and economic opportunities
Our 2050 vision and how we
get there
5. There is a need for widespread
electrification across the economy, but we
cannot rely on electricity alone. Many end use
sectors require low carbon energy including
those where electrification is not viable or
cost-effective, making the supply of cleaner
fuels essential to achieving net zero.

6. Our fuel supply will look very different by
2050. Oil and gas production will contract
significantly as the UK Continental Shelf
matures and investment in the North Sea
pivots to new opportunities from CCUS
and hydrogen, accelerated by widespread
electrification and low carbon fuel switching.
This shift away from fossil fuels will protect
consumers from volatile gas prices. Remaining
oil and gas installations will use low carbon
power, with residual emissions minimised. In
the Energy White Paper, we committed to this,
by stating that we will work with the oil and
gas sector to transform the UK Continental
Shelf into a net zero basin by 2050.
7. Refineries can play an important role in
low carbon clusters utilising CCUS and low
carbon fuels, and the production of low
carbon fuels will increase significantly to meet
demand where electrification is not viable. In
these areas there will be significant scale up
of hydrogen networks and storage, from new
and repurposed existing infrastructure.

108

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy
8. Based on our whole-system modelling, by
2050, emissions associated with fuel supply
could need to drop by 71-99% compared to
2019, down to 0-8 MtCO2e. In the interim, to
meet our NDC and CB6 targets, we expect
emissions could fall by 37-45% by 2030 and

53-60% by 2035, compared to 2019 levels.
These figures are based on an indicative fuel
supply sector pathway contributing to the
whole-economy net zero and interim targets
(see figure 18 below).

Figure 18: Indicative fuel supply emissions pathway to 2037
80
70

Emissions (MtCO2e)

60
50
40
30
Pre-Hydrogen Strategy & NSTD &
NZS policies and proposals

20

2050
Range

10

NZS delivery
pathway

0
1990

1995

2000

2005

2010

2015

2020

2025

2030

2035

2040

2045

2050

Source: BEIS analysis

9. We have agreed ambitious interim targets
for emissions reductions with industry through
the North Sea Transition Deal (NSTD) including
10% by 2025, 25% by 2027, and 50% by
2030 compared to a 2018 baseline.
10. The Ten Point Plan announced our
ambition for 5 GW of low carbon hydrogen
production capacity by 2030, alongside steps
to drive the uptake of sustainable aviation fuels
(SAF). Since then we have invested £3 million
in kick starting the Tees Valley Hydrogen
Transport Hub and announced a £60 million
Low Carbon Hydrogen Supply 2 Competition

to fund projects to develop innovative low
carbon hydrogen solutions. The UK Hydrogen
Strategy further sets out our comprehensive
approach to growing a UK hydrogen economy,
indicating that use of low carbon hydrogen
enabled by 5 GW of production capacity could
deliver total emissions savings of 41 MtCO2e
between 2023 and 2032, the equivalent of the
carbon captured by 700 million trees over the
same period.
11. Looking across a range of end use
scenarios, the UK Hydrogen Strategy
suggests that we could need 7-20 GW of
109

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
production capacity in 2035 and 15-60 GW
in 2050, depending on developments across
heat, industry, transport, and power.20 Using
more specific end use assumptions, the
illustrative pathway in this Strategy suggests
production capacity in 2035 would need to
be 10 GW if heat is electrified, or 17 GW if
hydrogen is used widely for heat.21
12. As the production of low carbon fuels
replaces fossil fuels, we intend to follow the
following principles:
•

Integrating a whole system view.
We will take an economy-wide view,
including to balance end-use sector
demands with supply side considerations,
such as infrastructure and the operation
of the electricity and other fuel
supply sectors.

•

Taking a portfolio approach.
We will remain flexible to a supply mix of
low carbon fuels that could be affected
by technologies in early development. As
demand grows, we expect innovators,
investors and producers will respond
with advances delivering further cost
or emissions savings. Our hydrogen
modelling assumes a combination of
electrolysis from renewable electricity,
methane reformation with CCUS, and
BECCS but we are aware of industry
plans involving other production methods
and will update our modelling with new
technologies as evidence develops.

•

Minimising environmental impacts.
Any impacts from low carbon fuel
production on air quality or the
environment must be kept under
consideration and comply with evolving
regulatory standards. We must maintain
strict sustainability requirements for fuels
to be eligible for government support
schemes to achieve genuine emissions
savings compared to fossil fuels and
minimise environmental impacts.

110

13. Drawing on the OECD’s ‘Trade in
Embodied CO2’ database, as well as the
relative levels of trade openness of UK
sectors, our analysis suggests that refineries
are currently amongst the areas most at
risk of carbon leakage. We are committed
to mitigating this risk by engaging with
industry to better understand their concerns
around carbon leakage. Further analysis and
information on the potential mitigations for
consideration are set out in HM Treasury’s Net
Zero Review.

Seizing new opportunities
14. To achieve the level of emissions
reductions in the fuel supply sector indicated
by our delivery pathway to 2037, we will need
additional public and private investment of
£20-30 billion.
15. Government investment in domestic
hydrogen production, to de-risk early projects,
could also unlock private sector capital coinvestment of over £4 billion by 2030. This
could increase to £10-22 billion to meet the
2037 delivery pathway in electrification and
hydrogen scenarios for heat respectively.22

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy
16. Decarbonising fuel supply and growth
of the hydrogen sector will regenerate
communities and open up new employment
opportunities right around the UK. Based
on current estimates, policies and proposals
to reduce emissions in fuel supply and
growing the hydrogen sector could support
up to 10,000 jobs in 2030. We will build on
existing commitments in the NSTD to facilitate
reskilling and support 40,000 jobs across the
supply chain, ensuring everyone employed
in the sector can fulfil their potential. Many
skills will also be transferable to clean growth
industries like offshore wind, CCUS and
hydrogen production. Producing low carbon
hydrogen at scale will be made possible by
carbon capture and storage infrastructure,
and we plan to grow both of these new
British industries side by side in industrail
‘SuperPlaces’.

18. Achieving our 5 GW ambition for
hydrogen production capacity could support
over 9,000 jobs in 2030, across the full
hydrogen value chain. Meeting the delivery
pathways set out in the Journey to Net Zero
chapter could support 13,000-19,000 jobs
across the hydrogen economy by 2035.23
19. Oil and gas will continue to play an
important role as we transform from an
economy based on fossil fuels to one based
on clean energy. We will manage the transition
in a way that protects jobs and investment,
uses existing infrastructure, maintains security
of supply, and accounts for climate risk.

17. The development of a domestic SAF
industry alone could generate support up
to 1,000 jobs in 2030, with new jobs as
plants are developed as well as opportunities
to retain existing fuel expertise across the
country. Industry has committed to creating
an integrated skills plan to help its transition
and diversification with strong support from
government, academia, and trade unions.

Case study: The Phillips 66 Humber refinery
The sector can already compete on the world stage and provide domestic
resilience by producing products essential for decarbonisation. UK refining
includes a global leader and the only European producer of high-grade speciality
coke for batteries used in electric vehicles and consumer electronic goods.
The Phillips 66 Humber refinery’s world scale production capability is equivalent
to 1.3 million electric vehicles (EV) per year. . Whilst the majority is currently
exported, it has the potential to underpin a domestic UK battery industry and
development of a broader EV battery manufacturing base in the UK.

111

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Policies and proposals
Oil and gas supply
20. We have always been clear that as we
reduce our dependence on fossil fuels, the
North Sea basin has a key role to play. Our
approach will ensure that it does contribute to
the transition, driving investment in transition
technologies and providing the skills needed
for net zero. However, we are clear that we do
need to reduce our reliance on hydrocarbons
as swiftly as possible. The best way to protect
British businesses and consumers from
volatile international fossil fuel markets is to get
our economy off hydrocarbons.
21. Upstream, the North Sea Transition Deal
(NSTD) has set us on a transformational path
to deliver the long‑term skills, innovation,
infrastructure, and investment required to
decarbonise oil and gas production and
industry more widely. The deal will hold the
industry to account on commitments it has
made to halve its operational emissions
by 2030, while supporting up to 40,000
high‑quality direct and indirect supply
chain jobs in Scotland and our industrial
heartlands in the North East, North West
and East of England. It also emphasises
our shared commitment to achieving 10
MtCO2/year of CCUS capacity, with industry
leveraging existing infrastructure to provide
key transport and storage capability; and
positions the sector to help deliver our 5 GW
hydrogen ambition.

112

22. The Oil and Gas Authority (OGA)
published its revised strategy in February,
enshrining a range of new net zero obligations
for the UK oil and gas industry. This is
reflected through the suite of levers available
to the OGA, making net zero a key factor in
its decisions, including to grant consent for
projects. It empowers the OGA to assess
operators’ plans to reduce their emissions
levels against effectively a net zero test, in
accordance with its revised strategy, the OFS
can now encourage operators to invest in
transition technologies such as CCUS and
hydrogen – seizing the economic opportunities
available to the sector in a net zero future
and living up to the commitments of the
Transition Deal. The Strategy also introduces
full societal carbon cost assessments into the
approvals process.
23. Step-change abatement will be delivered
by the electrification of existing and new
offshore assets, through connections to
onshore networks or offshore renewables. We
will work with regulators to review supporting
infrastructure in the Offshore Transmission
Network Review and to address regulatory
barriers. We will support removing further
barriers through £1 million of additional
funding from 2021 to 2022.

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy
24. Beyond power generation, flaring and
venting account for most remaining upstream
emissions and we will need to be ambitious to
allow us to stay on track for our CB6 target.
We have endorsed industry’s commitment in
the NSTD to accelerate reductions beyond
the World Bank’s ‘Zero Routine Flaring by
2030’ initiative and new OGA guidance sets
out the expectation that all facilities should
have zero routine flaring and venting by 2030
or sooner. Industry is taking steps through
its Methane Action Plan for continuous
emissions reductions with specific methane
emissions reduction targets, whilst setting the
expectation that assets will have individual
action plans by 2022.
25. Further, following the conclusion of our
review into the future of offshore oil and gas
licensing earlier this year, we will also introduce
a formal climate compatibility checkpoint
on future licensing rounds for oil and gas
exploration. This will ensure future licences
are only awarded following a compatibility
assessment against the government’s
broad climate change ambitions, including
reaching net zero by 2050. This checkpoint
will be designed by the end of 2021. We will
be seeking input on the design through a
consultation to be published before COP26.
26. This checkpoint builds on the existing
checks within our regulatory system, including
the OGA Strategy, and the role of the
Offshore Petroleum Regulator for Environment
and Decommissioning (OPRED). These
checks include a full environmental impact
assessment and a public consultation.

27. Additional work is being carried out by
the government and regulators to review
what action can be taken to further reduce
emissions. Improved measurement, reporting
and verification will play a critical role in this.
The government, including the Offshore
Petroleum Regulator for Environment and
Decommissioning, is working closely with
the OGA to collect robust industry data
which will enable effective implementation of
their strategy. The OGA’s tracking of overall
emissions reductions and benchmarking
of flaring and venting data will also improve
performance across industry. Government and
regulators will continue to work with industry
to drive emissions reductions, including
through improved process efficiency, to stay
on track for CB6.
28. Midstream, the gas network must be
effective at minimising gas leakage and
associated emissions by replacing iron
pipes with plastic, even with gas demand
decreasing leading to 2050. Through network
price controls, Ofgem has set gas distribution
companies a target to replace 15,500km of
iron mains and associated services in 5 years,
from April 2021. This will reduce leakage by
17% and emissions by 0.5 MtCO2e. Additional
financial incentives will encourage further
action through pressure management and gas
conditioning. We continue to work with Ofgem
and HSE to review how best to continue to
reduce methane leakage to 0% in all future
decarbonisation scenarios.
29. Blending hydrogen into the gas grid
could also support initial steps to decarbonise
heating. This will consider the air quality
impacts of hydrogen combustion in domestic
settings. Government is working closely with
key delivery partners to explore options to
blend hydrogen up to 20% by volume into
the gas distribution network, and up to 2%
into the gas transmission network, along with
biomethane and natural gas. Subject to both
the economic and safety case for blending
being demonstrated, we are aiming to make a
final decision on blending by the end of 2023.
113

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
30. We recognise that industry will need early
sight of decisions should blending proceed
and propose five principles for delivery:
•

Safety. Blending must remain within
safe limits set by the Health and Safety
Executive and changes to gas quality
and infrastructure must meet all safety
requirements;

•

Operability. Changes to gas quality and
infrastructure must maintain existing
system, pipeline, and consumer appliance
operability;

•

Security of Supply. Blending must not
prevent consumers’ secure gas supply;

•

Affordability. Costs to consumers should
be affordable and value for money; and

•

Temporary. Blending could support initial
development of the hydrogen economy but
is not a preferred long-term solution.

31. Acknowledging that the future demand
for gas will decline as we decarbonise, means
that the gas system will need to change to
meet the net zero targets. We will publish a
call for evidence this autumn, seeking views
from stakeholders on the future of the gas
system, with a focus on infrastructure and
markets. This will enable us to determine how
the gas market will need to evolve to ensure
the right market and regulatory signals are in
place to offer the necessary level of investment
and maintenance throughout the transition.
Gathering evidence on the amount of natural
gas, biomethane, and hydrogen available and
the ongoing role for gas will inform what action
we must take.
32. Downstream, UK refineries already
underpin major CCUS and hydrogen projects
in key industrial clusters. These include
Gigastack (Phillips 66), Humber Zero (Phillips
66) and HyNet (Essar Oil UK). The Industrial
Energy Transformation Fund recently awarded
£7 million and £800,000 to Essar Stanlow
and Phillips 66 respectively, in support of
hydrogen focussed net zero projects. We are
also encouraged to see operators investing
in the production of low carbon fuels and will
continue to work with the sector to encourage
innovation, maximise economic opportunities
from net zero, and remove regulatory barriers
which hinder the transition away from
fossil fuels.

Case study: Fulcrum BioEnergy
Fulcrum BioEnergy has announced plans to develop its first UK residual waste
to low carbon SAF plant. The ‘Fulcrum NorthPoint’ biorefinery will be located at
the Essar Oil (UK) Limited refinery at Stanlow, Ellesmere Port in the North West
of England.
33. We have also published the draft
Downstream Oil Resilience Bill which will give
the government the powers it needs to ensure

114

secure fuel supplies are maintained during the
transition to net zero.

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy

Low carbon fuel supply
34. The UK has a unique opportunity to be
a leader in low carbon fuel production and
this will be captured in strategies that we will
publish in 2022.
35. A new Biomass Strategy will set how
sustainable biomass could be best used
across the economy to help achieve net
zero, including to produce low carbon fuels.
It will also assess our existing sustainability
standards, already some of the world’s most
stringent, and set out where and how we can
improve them further. When coupled with
carbon capture and storage, it is possible
that sustainable biomass can not only enable
production of low carbon fuels but could also
deliver vital negative emissions. Any future
BECCS project will need to meet stringent
sustainability requirements for the production
and use of biomass, as will be set out in the
Biomass Strategy.
36. This will be complemented by a long-term
strategy for low carbon fuels as announced
in our recent Transport Decarbonisation Plan.
The strategy will consider how to maximise
emissions savings from low carbon fuels
used across different transport modes in the
period to 2050.
37. The latter of the two strategies will build
on the success of the Renewable Transport
Fuel Obligation (RTFO), which has supported
the market for low carbon fuel supply since
2008. Fuels supported under the RTFO
need to comply with sustainability criteria
such as minimum GHG thresholds, and by
incentivising fuels produced from wastes, it
saved 5.37 MtCO2e in 2019 alone. Further to
sub-targets for so-called development fuels
of strategic importance, we have recently
widened support to more diverse fuels and
announced more ambitious targets for the
RTFO to 2032 set at 14.6% of total liquid
fuel supply.

38. To accelerate the development of UK
plants to produce advanced fuels we have
provided grant funding through schemes
including the Future Fuels for Flight and Freight
Competition (F4C) and Advanced Biofuels
Demonstration Competition (ABDC). Delivering
on the Ten Point Plan we also recently
announced the shortlist for the £15 million
Green Fuels, Green Skies Competition (GFGS)
supporting eight companies pioneering
new SAF technologies. To accompany this
announcement, we published a consultation
on proposals for a new UK SAF blending
mandate aiming for introduction in 2025.
It included design questions on which
feedstocks and technologies should be
eligible and welcomed views on what our
SAF ambition and targets should be. We are
currently reviewing the responses to the SAF
mandate consultation, but our ambition is for
a comprehensive policy framework, including
the mandate, to enable the delivery of 10%
SAF by 2030. Further detail can be found in
the Transport chapter.

Hydrogen production
39. The UK’s skills, capabilities, assets, and
infrastructure mean that we have the potential
to excel in both CCUS-enabled and electrolytic
low carbon hydrogen production. Alongside
the scale of production that CCUS-enabled
methane reformation or ‘blue’ hydrogen can
bring, our renewables can support the growth
of electrolytic or ‘green’ hydrogen, bringing
down costs and increasing production
capacity whilst new production technologies
such as hydrogen from nuclear and biomass
are developed. Supporting a variety of different
production methods will enable us to develop
low carbon hydrogen rapidly at scale during
the 2020s and 2030s to deliver what is
needed for CB6 and net zero.

115

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
40. Our approach to scaling up the UK
hydrogen economy in the 2020s is set out
in our recent UK Hydrogen Strategy, which
describes our key policies and proposals
to overcome key barriers to development.
Alongside the Strategy, we published a
package of documents consulting on
proposed policy support mechanisms for new
hydrogen production. This approach, subject
to further policy development following these
consultations, and together with the ambition
shown by proposed hydrogen projects,
provides confidence we can achieve low
carbon production sufficient to deliver on our
targets under the Climate Change Act. We
know there will be more to do and will keep
our policy approach under review as the use
of hydrogen in the energy system develops
and production methods evolve.

43. In August this year we published our
consultation on our preferred hydrogen
business model25 to provide revenue support
to hydrogen producers and help overcome
the cost challenge to bring through investment
in new low carbon hydrogen projects. As set
out in the Industry chapter, and Hydrogen
Revenue Support (IDHRS) scheme to fund our
new hydrogen and industrial carbon capture
business models. We will be providing up to
£140 million to establish the scheme, including
up to £100 million to award contracts of up to
250 MW of electrolytic hydrogen production
capacity in 2023 with further allocation in
2024. The IDHRS will fund the allocation of the
hydrogen business model contracts to both
electrolytic and CCUS-enabled projects from
2023, resulting in up to 1.5 GW of low carbon
hydrogen contracts awarded to projects.

41. The UK is already at the forefront of
innovation across the hydrogen value chain,
reducing technological barriers to production
and end use cases. We recently launched
a new £60 million Low Carbon Hydrogen
Supply 2 Competition, which will develop
novel hydrogen supply solutions for a growing
hydrogen economy.24

44. As set out in the August consultation,26
our Net Zero Hydrogen Fund (NZHF) will
provide up to £240 million for government
co‑investment to support new low carbon
hydrogen production out to 2025. The aim of
the Fund is to support commercial deployment
of new low carbon hydrogen production
projects during the early 2020s, by helping
to address barriers related to commercial
risk and high upfront costs relative to fossil
fuel alternatives, unlocking private sector
investment in projects. We intend to launch
the NZHF in early 2022.

42. Low carbon hydrogen is not yet
competitive with traditional fuels as production
projects face additional costs compared to
existing energy sources. Investors cannot
currently justify upfront capital investments
without visibility or predictability of revenue
and returns. Lessons learnt from the success
of UK offshore wind deployment suggests
government intervention to address this
cost difference is a key requirement to bring
forward hydrogen supply at scale.

116

45. In August we also published a
consultation27 on the proposed UK low carbon
hydrogen standard which will define what is
meant by low carbon hydrogen, allowing us
to incentivise and support the right production
for supply across the energy system. It will
establish a threshold for greenhouse gas
emissions allowed in the production process
for hydrogen to be considered low carbon and
be eligible for support.

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy
46. The RTFO has supported the supply
of renewable hydrogen into transport since
2018 and has been successful in launching
small-scale renewable hydrogen supply. In
July, the Department for Transport announced
changes to the RTFO which could further
encourage the uptake of renewable hydrogen
in transport, including in rail and shipping. The
original consultation, published in March, also
proposed to make evidencing the provision of
renewable electricity for hydrogen production
easier through power purchase agreements
and recognising the importance of regional
grids. The final decision on these changes will
be published shortly.

47. The UK Hydrogen Strategy sets out the
initial steps being undertaken to develop the
hydrogen economy over the 2020s, to deliver
our 2030 5 GW production capacity ambition
and position the hydrogen economy for further
ramp up needed to support CB6 and net
zero. But we know there will be more to do
beyond this. That is why we committed in the
strategy to say more on the mix of production
technologies and supporting network and
storage infrastructure that could help meet
future hydrogen demand following conclusion
of our consultations and further work. Similarly,
we set out our plans to develop appropriate
regulatory and market frameworks to support
an expanding hydrogen economy throughout
the 2020s and beyond. We will publish a
Hydrogen Sector Development Action plan in
early 2022.

117

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Working together across the UK
Examples of policy action by the Scottish Government, Welsh Government
and Northern Ireland Executive
UK Government is working across all
levels of government and with Devolved
Administrations to ensure consistent action to
reduce emissions across the fuel supply and
hydrogen sectors, and across the UK.

Wales
In December 2020 the Welsh Government
commissioned a report on hydrogen that
included baseline reporting on related activities
and expertise, and a pathway for developing
the sector.28 The proposed pathway contains
ten objectives covering both supply and use
of hydrogen, including the establishment of at
least one 10+ MW renewable production site
and the deployment of 200 fuel cell buses.
The Welsh Government consulted on the
pathway earlier this year and following analysis
of the responses it will finalise a pathway for
hydrogen development over the second Welsh
carbon budget period (2021-25).

118

Scotland
In December 2020, the Scottish Government
published a Hydrogen Policy Statement which
sets a vision for Scotland to become a leading
Hydrogen Nation with an ambition to generate
5 GW of renewable and low-carbon hydrogen
by 2030, committing to £100 million funding to
accelerate the hydrogen economy in Scotland
over the next five years.
The Hydrogen Policy Statement has provided
the framework for the development of a
Hydrogen Action Plan in 2021 which will
provide further detail on the planned approach
and necessary actions to implement the policy
positions outlined in the Policy Statement.
The Hydrogen Action Plan will be published
later this year.
The Scottish Government has led the way
in supporting world-leading hydrogen
demonstration projects in Scotland that are
helping to determine the role of hydrogen
in Scotland’s future energy system. This
includes the provision of £7 million funded
support towards the cost of a world first
£28 million demonstration of an end-to-end
100% hydrogen energy system. The project
will construct and operate a hydrogen
heat network system in Fife able to service
around 300 houses and will be of UK-wide
significance to evidence the role that hydrogen
can play in decarbonising heat, using the
gas network.

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy

Northern Ireland
A new Northern Ireland Energy Strategy is
expected to be published by the end of 2021,
with proposals on phasing out coal, solid fuels
and heating oil alongside decarbonising our
gas network, including the future injection of
biomethane and potential hydrogen blending.
Northern Ireland is uniquely positioned to
become a leader in the hydrogen economy
and secure these benefits locally. This
is already gathering momentum, with NI
Water trialling an innovative new hydrogen
electrolyser at its wastewater treatment works
– the first such project of its kind across the
UK. Translink, the public transport service
provider in Northern Ireland, is also introducing
three new hydrogen buses to its fleet and
is procuring a new hydrogen fuelling station
for these and an anticipated 20 more under
a new contract. The GenComm project,
led by Belfast Metropolitan College, will
trial hydrogen production via electrolysis for
hydrogen buses. They are also engaged with
a range of potential complementary projects to
build on this momentum and contribute to the
growth of an indigenous hydrogen economy in
Northern Ireland.

119

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

3iii. Industry
Stretching our ambition for net zero
Our Key Commitments
•

Ambition to deliver 6 MtCO2 per year of industrial CCUS by 2030, and 9 MtCO2 per
year by 2035.

•

Set up the Industrial Decarbonisation and Hydrogen Revenue Support (IDHRS)
scheme to fund our new industrial carbon capture and hydrogen business models.

•

Support the deployment of CCUS through the £1 billion CCS Infrastructure Fund.

•

Following Phase 1 of the Cluster Sequencing process, the Hynet and East Coast
Clusters have been confirmed as Track 1 clusters.

•

Support the installation of energy efficiency and on-site decarbonisation measures
through the £315 million Industrial Energy Transformation Fund (IETF) (£289 million
for England, Wales and Northern Ireland, £26 million for Scotland).

•

Support the increased requirement for fuel switching to low carbon alternatives, with
an ambition to replace around 50 TWh of fossil fuels per year by 2035.

•

In collaboration with the Steel Council we will consider the implications of the
recommendation of the Climate Change Committee to set targets for ore-based
steelmaking to reach near-zero emissions by 2035, and the business environment
necessary to support the transition.

•

Develop several Resource and Energy Efficiency (REEE) measures with ambition
of achieving the anticipated requirement of 11 MtCO2e worth of savings by 2035,
including up to 3 MtCO2e of potential abatement in the Iron and Steel sector.

•

Incentivise cost-effective abatement in industry at the pace and scale required to
deliver net zero, through the UK ETS by consulting (in partnership with the Devolved
Administrations) on a net zero consistent cap.

•

Explore opportunities for faster decarbonisation of dispersed sites in the 2020s.

120

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy

Progress to date
1. The UK’s manufacturing and refining sector
plays an essential role in society. It contributes
£180 billion to the overall economy,29 directly
accounting for 8% of GDP30 and provides 2.5
million direct jobs across the country31 as well
as over 5 million across the value chain.32
2. However, industry33 is also a major source
of CO2 emissions, producing 15% (78
MtCO2e)34 of the UK’s current total. Around
half of industrial emissions are concentrated
in specific clusters – geographical areas with
large concentrations of industry.
3. Industry emissions have more than halved
since 1990, due mainly to the changing
structure of the UK’s manufacturing sector,
improved energy efficiency, and a shift to
low carbon fuels. Despite this progress, the
overall pace of reductions is slowing, and
more action is needed to achieve our net zero
commitments.
4. The Industrial Decarbonisation Strategy
(IDS), published in March 2021, was the first
of its kind in a major economy. It sets out
how industry can decarbonise in line with net
zero while transforming industrial regions by
attracting inward investment, future-proofing
businesses, and securing the long-term
viability of jobs.
5. This followed previous work including
the landmark Industrial Decarbonisation
and Energy Efficiency Roadmaps to 2050,
published in 2015, which set out a series
of pathways for emissions reductions for
energy‑intensive sectors.

6. We plan to have the world’s first net zero
industrial cluster by 2040, awarded grants
from the £315 million Industrial Energy
Transformation Fund (IETF), announced
a £1 billion Carbon Capture and Storage
Infrastructure Fund, and a £240 million Net
Zero Hydrogen Fund. Additionally, as part
of the Industrial Decarbonisation Challenge
(IDC), we recently announced £171 million
of funding, matched by over £200 million
industry investment, for nine projects within
five clusters.
7. Growing new industries in low carbon
hydrogen alongside CCUS and renewable
energy will put our industrial ‘SuperPlaces’ at
the forefront of technological development.
Together this will develop resilient supply
chains, support jobs, and position UK
companies at the forefront of an exciting
growing global market, as well supporting
industrial processes, industrial heat, power,
shipping and trucking to make the shift
to net zero.
8. Energy intensive industry in the UK has
been covered by a cap-and-trade policy since
2005. The UK government and Devolved
Administrations successfully launched the UK
Emissions Trading Scheme (UK ETS) on 1
January 2021. The UK ETS cap, which sets
the limit on emissions for sectors covered by
it, will be aligned with a net zero consistent
trajectory by January 2023, or January 2024
at the latest. In the coming months, we will be
publishing a consultation on the level of the
cap and other elements of UK ETS evolution.

121

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
9. We recognise the importance of
addressing the risk of carbon leakage so
policy interventions do not lead to increased
emissions elsewhere, and to ensure that
UK industry has the confidence needed to
fully decarbonise. The IDS and the Net Zero
Review set out the potential options available
to address this, including regulatory standards
and Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanisms
(CBAMs), as well as the ongoing review

of our current carbon leakage mitigation
policy of free allowances under the UK ETS.
Government will continue to explore options
to mitigate carbon leakage, with emphasis
on an international, multilateral effort to tackle
carbon leakage at source through global
action on industrial decarbonisation and
climate regulation, with continued monitoring
of related global policy developments.

Net zero transition and economic opportunities
Our 2050 vision and how we
get there
10. To stay on track for net zero, industrial
emissions will need to fall significantly, with
residual emissions being compensated for
by Greenhouse Gas Removal methods. All
industrial sectors will need to act to meet this
challenge and to ensure they are resilient to
climate changes that are already inevitable. To
do this, we need to transform how industry
uses energy and makes products and rethink
the type of industrial products consumers buy.

122

11. Based on our whole system modelling,
by 2050, emissions associated with industry
could need to drop by 87-96% compared to
2019, down to 3-10 MtCO2e. In the interim, to
meet our NDC and Carbon Budget 6 targets,
we expect emissions could fall by 43-53%
by 2030 and 63-76% by 2035, compared to
2019 levels. These figures are based on an
indicative industry pathway contributing to the
whole‑economy net zero and interim targets
(see figure 19 below).

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy

Figure 19: Indicative industry emissions pathway to 2037
180
160

Emissions (MtCO2e)

140
120
100
80
60

Pre-IDS & NZS policies
and proposals

40
20

NZS delivery
pathway

0
1990

1995

2000

2005

2010

2015

2020

2025

2030

2035

2040

2045

2050
Range

2050

Source: BEIS analysis

12. The IDS sets out the policy foundations
to deliver net zero for industry, including
immediate actions in the 2020s. The initial
reduction target of around two thirds (67%)
of industrial emissions by 2035 was informed
by sector-specific modelling developed in
conjunction with the CCC. Our new ambition
of 63-76% is consistent with, and builds on,
the pathways we set out in the IDS, but with,
amongst other things, increased levels of fuel
switching and iron and steel decarbonising in
the 2020s and early 2030s.

13. Our Carbon Budget 6 delivery pathway
aims to give long-term clarity to industry, going
further than the IDS in several areas:
•

Going further and faster on fuel
switching and carbon capture,
utilisation and storage (CCUS). These
are critical for our overall pathway, requiring
both infrastructure decisions and revenue
support, via the IDHRS scheme. Modelling
suggests fuel switching to low carbon
alternatives could reach 50 Twh per
year by 2035, along with an increase in
capturing and storing industrial emissions,
from 3 MtCO2 per year to 6 MtCO2 by
2030, and 9 MtCO2 per year by 2035.

123

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
•

Working towards more resource and
energy efficiency savings. We anticipate
the need for regulatory, fiscal, and wider
measures targeted at industrial products
and supply chains to achieve 11 MtCO2e
worth of savings by 2035, including up to
3 MtCO2e of potential abatement in the
iron and steel sector, as estimated by the
Climate Change Committee.

16. Many industrial sectors also have low
profit margins, so their ability to invest in
some decarbonisation technologies is limited
and has been exacerbated by the pandemic.
Short-to-medium term capital funding and
revenue support will therefore be required to
overcome these investment hurdles, reduce
the risk of carbon leakage, and stimulate long
term private investment.

•

Realising the benefits of demandside measures and carbon pricing.
An increasing carbon price will help to
incentivise action on decarbonisation by
industry, whilst demand side measures,
such as product labelling, regulatory
standards, and changes to public and
private procurement approaches, can
play a key role in helping the development
of the market, and mitigating the risk of
carbon leakage.

17. Decarbonising the industry sector will
regenerate communities and open up new
employment opportunities right around the
UK. Based on current estimates, policies and
proposals to reduce emissions in the industry
sector could support up to 54,000 jobs in
2030. This figure is driven by CCUS, which
could support up to 50,000 jobs in 203035,
split across industry, power, and the transport
and storage network.36 In addition, the
manufacture and installation of on-site energy
efficiency and fuel switching measures to
achieve a net zero pathway for industry could
support up to 4,000 jobs in 2030.

Seizing new opportunities
14. To achieve the level of emissions
reductions in the industry sector indicated by
our delivery pathway to 2037, we will need
additional public and private investment of
at least £14 billion and significant operating
expenditure from the expected increase in
CCUS, hydrogen use and other fuel switching
technology. Energy and resource efficiency
will also play a key role in offsetting some of
these costs.
15. Due to challenges faced by industry, such
as the level of capital investment required
to commercially scale essential low carbon
technologies, it will be important to drive the
decarbonisation of industry at a pace that
allows technology to develop and companies,
large and small, to adapt their working
practices, and retrain their workforces.

124

18. We have the opportunity to future‑proof
industrial sectors and take advantage of future
low carbon markets. This will include creating
resilient supply chains that ensure we exploit
our strengths and have diverse supply sources
for critical goods, as well as supporting those
areas that could be vulnerable to global
shocks. The UK is already a world leader in
new clean technology, as seen in our growing
hydrogen and CCUS sectors, and we can
develop new markets for low carbon goods
and support further innovation. As highlighted
in the IDS, wider environmental and air quality
impacts will be kept under consideration, in
line with evolving regulatory standards.

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy
19. CCUS will be critical to achieving net
zero, alongside low carbon alternatives such
as low carbon hydrogen and electricity.
These technologies offer a renewed era for
our industrial heartlands. Connecting locally,
for instance positioning hydrogen train trials
near blue hydrogen clusters means we can
start to bring higher skilled, higher paid jobs
and expertise to cluster in these area. The
engineers, fabricators, and geologists currently
working in industrial clusters and the oil and

gas sector will be able to make use of local
skills programmes such as Skills Bootcamps
or Free Courses for Jobs to support new
emerging industries in renewables, CCUS,
and low carbon hydrogen to help build
SuperPlaces. As the demand pulls through
these lower carbon technologies, the
costs fall. And these industrial clusters, our
potential ‘SuperPlaces’, will foster and lead
internationally on the development and roll out
of these technologies.

Policies and proposals
Fuel switching and carbon capture
Low carbon hydrogen
20. Fuel switching to hydrogen is likely to
be technically feasible for most industrial
processes and our modelling indicates it is
the least-cost option to decarbonise harder to
electrify sites, processes, and sectors.
21. The IDS sets out that a low regret level
of deep decarbonisation infrastructure
should be installed in industrial clusters this
decade. This will give industry the confidence
to invest in switching to low carbon fuels,
such as hydrogen. Industrial users located in
clusters are therefore expected to provide the
most significant new demand for hydrogen
by 2030, with the greatest potential from
chemicals and iron and steel sectors. A
significant proportion of this demand could
arise from a small number of sites acting as
‘pathfinders’, proving the viability of hydrogen
at a commercial scale and fostering the initial
market for low carbon hydrogen.

22. The UK Hydrogen Strategy indicated
that in 2030 consumption of low carbon
hydrogen as an industry fuel could range from
around 10 TWh per year if supply is limited to
clusters, and up to around 20 TWh per year
if pipelines are connected to some dispersed
sites. While supply is likely to come mostly
from large scale cluster-based CCUS-enabled
hydrogen production sites, there could also
be industrial demand for low carbon hydrogen
from electrolysis, which can be produced at
a smaller scale on a more localised level. To
stay on track for our Carbon Budget 6 delivery
pathway, hydrogen demand from industry
may need to increase up to 50 TWh by 2035.
This increase would be driven by a growing
number of sites having access to low carbon
hydrogen, further technology development
to enable an expanding range of processes
to switch to hydrogen, and a shift in the
associated costs, such as the price of carbon,
to make hydrogen an increasingly competitive
fuel option.
23. The UK Hydrogen Strategy also set out
the actions we are taking to support industry
to realise the potential of this new technology.
It is critical that we demonstrate fuel switching
to low carbon hydrogen on industrial sites
during the 2020s so we will provide further
support for research and innovation through
the Net Zero Innovation Portfolio and initiatives
led by the Industrial Decarbonisation Research
and Innovation Centre (IDRIC).
125

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
24. Demand-side measures and carbon
pricing could help to drive demand for
hydrogen and will be supported by grant
funding, such as the £55 million Industrial
Fuel Switching Competition under our Net
Zero Innovation Portfolio and the Phase 2
of the IETF, to support on-site fuel switches.
Regulatory measures can also support
industry to switch to low carbon hydrogen,
with the Hydrogen Strategy announcing calls
for evidence on hydrogen-ready industrial
equipment and decarbonising existing high
carbon hydrogen production. Alongside
this, hydrogen production measures in the
fuel supply chapter of this strategy will bring
forward low carbon hydrogen supply for use
across the economy and help make hydrogen
a price competitive decarbonisation option to
encourage end users to switch.

Carbon capture, usage and
storage (CCUS)
25. Carbon Capture, Usage & Storage
(CCUS) will be an exciting new industry to
capture the carbon we continue to emit and
revitalise the birthplaces of the first Industrial
Revolution. The Prime Minister’s Ten Point
Plan established a commitment to deploy
CCUS in a minimum of two industrial clusters
by the mid-2020s, and four by 2030 at the
latest. Our aim is to use CCUS technology
to capture and store 20-30MtCO2 per year
by 2030, forming the foundations for future
investment and potential export opportunities.
Developed alongside hydrogen, we can
create these transformative ‘SuperPlaces’ in
areas such as the Humber, North East, North
West and southern England, as well as in
Scotland and Wales.

126

26. Developed alongside hydrogen, CCUS
will be part of creating transformative
“SuperPlaces” in areas such The Humber
and North East, North West, and Southern
England as well as in Scotland and Wales. Our
£1 billion CCS Infrastructure Fund will provide
industry with the certainty required to deploy
CCUS at pace and at scale and will form part
of a package of government support, which
will also include the Industrial Decarbonisation
and Hydrogen Revenue Support (IDHRS)
scheme and the £240 million Net Zero
Hydrogen Fund supporting both CCS-enabled
‘blue’ and electrolytic ‘green’ hydrogen.
27. Following the completion of Phase 1 of
the Cluster Sequencing process, the Hynet
and East Coast Clusters have been confirmed
as track 1 clusters for the mid-2020s and will
be taken forward into Track-1 negotiations.
If the clusters represent value for money
for the consumer and the taxpayer then
subject to final decisions of Ministers, they
will receive support under the government’s
CCUS Programme. We are also announcing
the Scottish Cluster as a reserve cluster if a
back-up is needed; we will continue to engage
with this cluster as well as the track 1 clusters,
throughout the next stage of the process. This
puts these places - Teesside, the Humber,
Merseyside, North Wales and the North
East of Scotland - among the potential early
SuperPlaces which will be transformed over
the next decade.
28. We remain committed to helping all
industrial clusters to decarbonise as we work
to reach net zero emissions by 2050, and we
are clear that CCUS will continue to play a
key role in this process. Consequently, the
government continues to be committed to
Track-2 contributing capacity of 10Mt per year
to help achieve our 2030 ambition. Deploying
CCUS will be a significant undertaking, these
are new major infrastructure projects for a new
sector of the economy and carry with them
significant risks to deliver by the mid‑2020s.

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy
Government will need to play a role in
providing long-term certainty to these projects
to manage these risks and bring forward the
UK’s first CCUS clusters.
29. CCUS will be critical to achieving net
zero, alongside low carbon alternatives such
as low carbon hydrogen and electricity.
These technologies offer a renewed era for
our industrial heartlands. Connecting locally,
for instance positioning hydrogen train
trials near blue hydrogen clusters means
we start to bring higher skilled, higher paid
jobs and expertise to cluster in these areas.
The engineers, fabricators and geologists
currently working in industrial clusters and the
oil and gas sector will be able to make use of
skills programmes such as Skills Bootcamps
and Free Courses for Jobs to support new
emerging industries in renewables, CCUS
and low carbon hydrogen to help build
SuperPlaces. As the demand pulls through
these lower carbon technologies, the costs
fall. And these industrial clusters, our potential
SuperPlaces, foster and lead internationally
on the development and roll out of these
technologies.
30. Industrial CCUS is fundamental to
decarbonising of industries such as chemicals,
oil refining, and cement. This is because
options for decarbonising industry are limited
and fuel switching is sometimes only a partial
solution. CCUS is not currently investable for
most industrial sectors as deployment costs
are higher than the current carbon price can
support, and businesses are unable to pass
these through to consumers. Additionally,
businesses may face challenges raising capital
finance to invest in CCUS until it has been
more widely deployed in the UK. Therefore,
an investable business model is needed,
alongside clear commitments to provide
certainty to industry.

31. The IDS set out the ambition to capture 3
MtCO2 per year by 2030. Our delivery pathway
for Carbon Budget 6 requires an increased
ambition of 6 MtCO2 per year by 2030 and 9
MtCO2 per year by 2035. We envisage these
emissions to be captured from industries in
clusters as well as from more dispersed sites,
where non-pipeline transport solutions such as
the shipping of CO2 may be required.

Revenue support for industrial carbon
capture and hydrogen production
32. CCUS and hydrogen deployment will
play a central role in our green industrial
revolution and ensuring that the UK’s
businesses are competitive in a net zero
future. We have been working with industry
to develop business models for industrial
carbon capture and hydrogen production
to give investors the long-term revenue
certainty they require. We are now setting up
the Industrial Decarbonisation and Hydrogen
Revenue Support (IDHRS) scheme to fund
these business models and enable the first
commercial scale deployment of low carbon
hydrogen and industrial carbon capture.
This will unlock by 2030 up to £6bn private
sector capital, create thousands of jobs in
key levelling up regions, grow the UK supply
chain and achieve cost reductions, and deliver
carbon savings to allow us to stay on track for
our carbon budgets.
33. The IDHRS scheme will initially commit
to providing up to £100 million to support
initial electrolytic hydrogen projects, as set
out in the Fuel Supply chapter. We will also
be announcing a funding envelope in 2022
that will enable us to award the first contacts
to industrial carbon capture facilities and
CCUS-enabled hydrogen production projects
from 2023 through the Cluster Sequencing
process, to deliver up to 3 MtCO2/yr of
industrial carbon capture and up to 1GW of
CCUS-enabled hydrogen by the mid-2020s.

127

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
34. Subject to costs falling, we are also
committing to further allocation rounds for
all types of eligible low carbon hydrogen
production and industrial carbon capture from
2025. We will announce further allocation
rounds in due course which will enable us
to meet our 2030 deployment ambitions of
6MtCO2/year of industrial carbon capture, 5
GW hydrogen production capacity, and four
CCUS clusters, while continuing to grow the
UK supply chain and achieve cost reductions.
Once established, this framework could
also be used in the future for other critical
decarbonisation technologies.
35. From 2025 at the latest, all revenue
support for hydrogen production will be levy
funded, subject to consultation and legislation
being in place. Further details on this will be
set out in 2022 through the Government’s
response to the ongoing Hydrogen Business
Model consultation. This will include parallel
work to ensure fairness and affordability, such
as exemptions for energy intensive industries
at risk of carbon leakage.

Electrification
36. Electrification has the potential to abate
between 5 MtCO2e and 12 MtCO2e of industry
emissions per year by 2050. Electrification
will play a more significant role (12 MtCO2e) if
hydrogen is unavailable in dispersed sites. This
equates to an increase demand of electricity
by 15-44 TWh. Additional electricity demand
is consistent under our delivery pathway for
Carbon Budget 6, albeit the demand comes at
a faster pace due to the possible adoption of
electrification in the iron and steel sector.
37. Electrification technologies for low
temperature processes are technologically
mature and could be applied to less energy
intensive sites today. However, industry
faces barriers to adoption such as high
electricity costs. We have seen the impact
of overreliance on gas pushing up prices for
hardworking people but our plan to expand
our domestic renewables will push down
electricity wholesale prices. Applications for
128

higher temperature processes are currently
limited due to the low maturity of technologies.
We are currently assessing these barriers and
will set out initial steps that we will take to
support the uptake of electrification by the end
of 2021. Some initial grant funding support
will be available via Phase 2 of the IETF from
Autumn 2021. We are also working with
Ofgem, network operators, and stakeholders
on the approach to delivering low carbon
electricity networks with the capacity to meet
increased demand from industry.

Biomass
38. Initial support for sustainable use of
biomass fuel switching and BECCS is available
via Phase 2 of IETF. As set out in the IDS,
current evidence strongly suggests that given
limited sustainable biomass supply, we may
need to prioritise the use of biomass where
it can be combined with carbon capture
and storage (BECCS), resulting in negative
emissions. The Biomass Strategy, due to be
published in 2022 will review the amount of
sustainable biomass available to the UK, how
this could be best used across the economy,
and establish a role for BECCS in reducing
carbon emissions across the economy.

Industrial non-road mobile
machinery (NRMM)
39. NRMM covers a wide variety of machinery
across the economy (e.g. diggers, combine
harvesters, generators, cranes), with total
emissions of around 12 MtCO2e per year.
Industrial NRMM accounts for around 6
MtCO2e,37 coming from construction, mining,
and manufacturing, with the remaining
emissions largely attributed to agriculture
(see Natural Resources chapter), and some
to buildings and transport. New technologies
have begun to penetrate markets for some
NRMM uses, for example electrification
technologies, particularly for small, light
duty equipment. Government intervention is

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy
likely to be necessary to ensure low carbon
technologies continue to be developed and
ensure uptake at the level needed to reach
carbon budgets and net zero.
40. The first stage in government support will
involve innovation funding to prepare key low
carbon technologies for commercialisation.
The £40 million Red Diesel Replacement
competition will provide grant funding to
develop and demonstrate low carbon
alternatives to red diesel for the construction
and mining and quarrying sectors, to help
these sectors to decarbonise.
41. Further cross government work is required
to develop policies to support the deployment
of technological solutions and required
infrastructure in specific sectors, including
agriculture, transport and buildings. Relevant
government departments will work together to
ensure a coherent approach.

Steel
42. UK steel plays a critical role in the
economy as a foundation industry supporting
local economic growth and our levelling-up
agenda. Steel employs around 32,500 people
and supports up to a further 40,000 jobs
through its supply chains, providing high
value employment in economically deprived
areas.38 The IDS contains commitments
to work with the newly constituted Steel
Council to consider the implications of the
recommendation of the Climate Change
Committee to ‘set targets for ore-based
steelmaking to reach near-zero emissions
by 2035’. Hydrogen-based steelmaking,
CCUS and electrification are some of the
technological approaches being considered as
part of this process.
43. The Steel Council offers the forum for
government, industry, and trade unions
to work in partnership on the shared
objective of creating an achievable, longterm plan to support the sector’s transition
to a competitive, sustainable, and low
carbon future.

44. Steel accounts for 14% of industry
emissions,39 with 95% of this coming from
two blast furnace sites, Scunthorpe, and Port
Talbot.40 Decarbonising these sites and the
wider steel sector through switching to Electric
Arc Furnace applying industrial carbon capture
technology to existing blast furnaces or in the
future using hydrogen-based DRI.
45. The UK recognises the importance of
coordinating international activity on steel
sector decarbonisation, to reduce the costs
and risks of unilateral action. This includes
working with international partners to
collaborate on measures to mitigate carbon
leakage, increase the effectiveness of R&D
spending, and create larger, international
markets for low emission steel products. The
UK is taking a leading role in driving forward
this activity, championing a number of key
initiatives in this area at COP26, and beyond.
This includes the Clean Energy Ministerial’s
Industrial Deep Decarbonisation Initiative,
which the UK co-leads with India. This focuses
on aligning approaches to data measurement,
standards and procurement, to ensure there
is a coordinated approach to market creation
across borders. We are also supporting the
Net Zero Industry Mission, under Mission
Innovation, which aims to foster deeper
collaboration on industry decarbonisation.

Resource efficiency and energy
efficiency (REEE)
46. The Climate Change Committee estimate
that REEE measures could contribute 11
MtCO2e of annual emissions reductions by
2035.41 Various policies exist to incentivise
and regulate action on REEE, but we need
to ensure the right frameworks are in place
to end clear investment signals and drive
rapid action.

129

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Resource efficiency
47. Resource efficiency and material
substitution measures could save 9 MtCO2e
per annum in industry within the UK by
2050.42 Resource efficiency measures
reduce emissions from industrial processes
by keeping products and materials in
circulation for longer by way of reuse, repair,
remanufacture and recycling as well as
reducing material usage. These activities
enable the retention of value, and in some
cases the creation of new value for both the
producer and customer, at a much-reduced
environmental impact.
48. The approach in driving the transition to a
more resource efficient economy is set out for
England in the Government’s 2018 Resources
and Waste Strategy, to be supplemented
by a new Waste Prevention Programme,
which outlines how we will maximise the
value of our resources and minimise waste
to increase the circularity of our economy.
We will formalise joint working arrangements
across government departments to
promote collaboration on resource efficiency
approaches, ensuring we are using all the
policy tools available in working towards
shared emissions and environmental targets.
49. The Climate Change Committee (CCC)
balanced pathway estimates that 3 MtCO2e
of potential savings per year could be driven
by consumer-side measures by 2035.
Government aims to support this shift in the
2020s through policy measures that inform
consumers of the embodied carbon of
industrial goods and empower them to make
choices that support more efficient use of
resources. Measures across different sectors
will be explored, but opportunities have been
identified in the construction, automotive and
electronics sectors.

130

50. Government aims to support action
in the construction sector by improving
reporting on embodied carbon in buildings
and infrastructure with a view to exploring
a maximum level for new builds in the
future. We recognise there is potential to
reduce embodied carbon by way of material
substitution where appropriate, such as in
timber usage (see Natural Resources, Waste
and F-gases chapter) and resource efficiency
approaches, amongst others. We have also
supported the Green Construction Board
to produce a Routemap to Zero Avoidable
Waste, published in July 2021.
51. Government is identifying opportunities
to reduce the substantial embodied carbon
footprint of the automotive sector, beyond the
reduction and then elimination of emissions at
the tailpipe.
52. We are building on the successful
introduction this year of the first wave of right
to repair measures for certain appliances and
equipment. Alongside the review of Waste
from Electrical and Electronic Equipment
(WEEE), we will explore the use of labels that
inform consumers of durability, repairability and
recyclability. Other options under consideration
include enhancing and extending producer
responsibility schemes to incentivise sharing
and renting.
53. To realise the wider emissions saving
potential of resource efficiency measures
will require establishing frameworks which
minimise virgin resource use and maximise
recycled, reused, or remanufactured content.
We will continue to assess all, fiscal and
non‑fiscal, policy options to meet these
objectives.
54. Knowledge can be a barrier preventing
the value in waste resources from being
realised, including the sharing of secondary
resources across different industrial processes.
We will support companies to identify these
Industrial Symbiosis opportunities through
facilitation of a cross sector network to boost
take-up of circular economy initiatives. We will

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy
support inter-disciplinary approaches and
strengthen the evidence base on resource
efficiency initiatives by collaborating with the
UKRI funded National Interdisciplinary Circular
Economy Research (NICER) programme, and
through the development of data systems to
connect energy, waste, and water flows from
industrial sites.

Energy efficiency
55. Energy efficiency measures in industry
range from simple, bill-saving measures to
complex retrofits of industrial equipment with
long payback periods and replacement cycles.
We intend to explore regulatory measures to
drive greater, earlier uptake of energy efficiency
measures in line with Carbon Budget targets,
supported by a wider package of policies to
enable a smooth industry transition. We intend
to consult on the development of a package
of measures.
56. The heterogeneity of manufacturing
industry means that processes are very varied,
so codifying them for regulation across the
whole sector may be challenging. We are
currently exploring potential new regulatory
options to address this challenge. This
includes consideration of whether Energy
Management Systems can provide a tailored,
technology-neutral approach, and we would
seek to minimise burdens imposed by
regulation, possibly by using digital tools.
57. Energy intensive industry (EII) firms
are already covered by energy efficiency
regulations and many have adopted
efficiency measures. We are examining how
existing schemes can be enhanced (e.g.
reforming Climate Change Agreements) and/
or expanded (e.g. to non-EIIs and SMEs).
For non-EIIs and SMEs, we are reviewing
existing policies to ensure financial support is
accessible and minimum standards are clear.
58. For smaller businesses, behaviours
(awareness, prioritisation, maintenance) are
often a further barrier to improving energy
efficiency and we are considering new policies

to respond to these barriers. Building on
behavioural insights approaches in other
areas of government policy, we are keen to
explore how local networks – such as growth
hubs, Local Enterprise Partnerships (LEPs),
the local net zero hubs, and chambers of
commerce – can be used to drive energyefficient behaviours amongst businesses.
We will consider which levers could work
best to support, interconnect and scale-up
these networks.
59. Funding for complex industrial retrofits
with high payback periods will remain
available via the IETF Phase 2 from Autumn
2021. These would be further supported by
any future extension to the IETF, reflecting
the government’s manifesto commitment
to increase funding to £500 million to 2028.
Work will be undertaken to ensure sustainable
financing measures are available long-term.

Demand-side measures
60. The IDS sets out our ambition to create
demand for low carbon products, growing
the associated market and supporting
industry to share the costs of decarbonisation
with consumers.
61. The IDS committed to exploring a range of
policy options that can support this ambition
including improved transparency of embodied
emissions data, product labelling, regulatory
standards, and agreeing public and private
procurement approaches. The government
has committed to developing detailed policy
proposals in this area, beginning with a call
for evidence on demand-side policy by Spring
2022. The call for evidence will investigate
how we can define low carbon products and
the emissions reporting that will be required to
support those definitions. It will also explore
the design of demand-side policy levers, with
a view to the potential introduction of voluntary
standards and labelling as early as 2025, and
regulatory standards being introduced in the
late 2020s.

131

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
62. Across these approaches, the IDS
recognises the significant benefits which can
be achieved through international cooperation,
and the UK is leading the new Clean Energy
Ministerial Industrial Deep Decarbonisation
Initiative (IDDI), which aims to develop shared
approaches to embodied emissions reporting
and definitions for green steel and cement to
drive public and private procurement.

66. To achieve this, we intend to advance
work in the following main areas:
•

Accelerated decarbonisation across
dispersed sites: We will investigate the
potential for securing earlier emissions
savings from segments of emissions
where the technological pathway is more
straightforward, or where economies
of scale can be developed. This could
include areas such as heat pumps for low
temperature processes, and electrification
of off-gas grid sites.

•

Preparing sites for key infrastructure
decisions in the mid-2020s: For
most sites, more clarity on optimal
decarbonisation options depends on
key infrastructure decisions, such as
the future of hydrogen in the gas grid by
2026. We will work with stakeholders
to ensure that these sites understand
their decarbonisation options once these
decisions have been made. This would
include funding for Mini-Cluster Industrial
Decarbonisation Plans in the early 2020s,
to develop shared infrastructure and
intergrated decarbonisation solutions in
local areas. This would be supplemented
by continued funding via Phase 2
of the IETF for site-level studies and
deployment.45

Dispersed sites
63. Dispersed sites43 account for
approximately half of the UK’s industrial
emissions44, and therefore form a major part
of industry’s pathway to net zero. These sites
are highly diverse in terms of location, sectors,
and industrial processes, ranging from
energy-intensive processes such as clinker
production in cement to less energy-intensive
processes like pasteurisation in food and drink
manufacturing.
64. The IDS indicated that emissions
reductions in the early 2020s would focus
on energy efficiency. Deeper decarbonisation
potential is expected to be reached in the
2030s onwards, when uptake of low carbon
technologies in dispersed sites is expected
to be rapid.
65. Whilst the broad trajectory on
decarbonising dispersed sites remains valid,
the more ambitious Carbon Budget 6 targets
mean we will explore opportunities for faster
decarbonisation in dispersed sites in the
2020s. Going further on dispersed sites in the
2020s could help industry avoid technological
lock-in through offering decarbonisation
opportunities to align with investment cycles;
and spread the benefits of green technologies
beyond the clusters, supporting the
levelling up agenda.

132

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy

Working together across the UK
Examples of policy action by the Scottish Government, Welsh Government,
and Northern Ireland Executive
Wales

Scotland

A collaboration between researchers at
Swansea University and cement producer
Hanson UK has seen the installation of a
new demonstration unit at the company’s
Regen Ground Granulated Blast Furnace
Slag (GGBS) plant in Port Talbot. The
demonstration unit replaces some of the
natural gas in the Regen process with green
hydrogen. The carbon footprint of Regen
GGBS is about one tenth of Portland cement
and it is used as a replacement for up to
80% of the cement in concrete. The project
is part of the £9.2 million Reducing Industrial
Carbon Emissions (RICE) project which has
been part-funded by the European Regional
Development Fund through the Welsh
Government.

The Scottish Government has announced
a major fund to decarbonise industry and
manufacturing opening opportunities to
develop negative emissions technologies
(NETs). The Scottish Industrial Energy
Transformation Fund commits £34 million for
projects at industrial sites for energy efficiency
or deeper decarbonisation, including on
feasibility and conceptual studies into the
role of NETs.This is supported by a £180
million Emerging Energy Technologies fund to
support Hydrogen, CCS and NETs projects.
The Scottish Government has also launched
the Grangemouth Future Industry Board in
recognition of the continued commitment to
Scotland’s largest industrial manufacturing
cluster, now and in our net zero future.
Supporting a just transition to net zero is
at the heart of the Board’s work, designing
the collaborative approach to planning for
the transition of this core manufacturing
region and harnessing the significant
assets, technical and engineering,, skills,
and significant opportunities presented by
the cluster.

133

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Northern Ireland
Invest Northern Ireland delivers a suite of
support, including specialist advice and
investment capital to enable Northern
Irish businesses to become more efficient
and resilient through green efficiencies.
Support includes:
•

Technical Consultancy: Available to all
businesses with an annual energy and
resource spend above £30,000, this
support includes fully funded technical
audits, feasibility studies and advice
to help businesses identify cost and
carbon savings.

•

Resource Matching through Industrial
Symbiosis: fully funded support that
offers opportunities to convert redundant
materials of one business into a resource
for another business, utilising a circular
economy approach to add value and to
reduce costs and carbon for all parties.

134

•

Resource Efficiency Capital Grant:
Available to eligible businesses, grants of
up to £50,000 to help with the purchase
of new resource efficient technologies that
reduce the consumption of water, raw
materials and waste produced leading to
reduced carbon emissions.

•

COVID-19 Energy Efficiency Capital
Grant: Available to eligible businesses to
build resilience through green efficiency,
grants of up to £80,000 are available
for the installation of energy efficiency
equipment that offers cost and carbon
savings through the reduction of energy
consumption.

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy

3iv. Heat & Buildings
Decarbonising the way we heat and power our buildings
Our Key Commitments
•

Levelling up through supporting 175,000 green skilled jobs by 2030 and 240,000 by
2035 – resulting in £6 billion additional GVA by 2030 and with a focus on the areas
that need investment most.

•

Making the transition to low carbon buildings affordable and achievable for all by:

•

•

Aiming to phase out the installation of new and replacement natural gas boilers
by 2035 in line with the natural replacement cycle, and once costs of low carbon
alternatives have come down, including any hydrogen-ready boilers in areas
not converting to hydrogen, to ensure that all heating systems used in 2050 are
compatible with net zero.

•

Making heat pumps as cheap to buy and run as a gas boiler by growing the heat
pump market to support 600,000 installations per year by 2028 and expanding
UK manufacturing – with the ambition of working with industry to reduce costs
by at least 25-50% by 2025 and to parity with gas boilers by 2030 at the latest.

•

Supporting households in making this transition with a new £450 million Boiler
Upgrade Scheme providing £5,000 capital grants and a new market-based
incentive for heating system manufacturers, whilst investing £60 million in heat
pump innovation – making them beautiful, smaller, easier to install.

•

Consulting on phasing out the dirtiest and most expensive fossil fuels first - new
oil, coal and liquefied petroleum gas heating - and replace with low carbon
alternatives in non-domestic buildings from 2024 and homes from 2026,
following natural appliance replacement cycles.

•

Committing to action on addressing distortions in fuel prices to ensure that low
carbon technologies are no more expensive to run than fossil fuel boilers.

Helping households and businesses reduce their energy bills while making buildings
healthier and more comfortable benefiting from warmer, comfier, more valuable
buildings through:
•

Upgrading fuel poor homes to EPC Band C by 2030 where reasonably
practicable and providing additional funding to the Home Upgrade Grant and the
Social Housing Decarbonisation Fund – investing £1.75 billion.

135

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
•

Consulting on phasing in higher minimum performance standards to ensure
all homes meet EPC Band C by 2035, where cost-effective, practical and
affordable.

•

Setting long-term regulatory standards to upgrade Privately Rented Homes to
EPC C by 2028 and considering setting a long-term regulatory standard for
Social Housing, subject to consultation.

•

Reducing the energy consumption in commercial and industrial buildings in
England and Wales by 2030, using measures including regulations and a
performance-based measurement scheme.

•

Investing a further £1.425 billion in the Public Sector Decarbonisation Scheme,
with the aim of reducing direct emissions from public sector buildings by
75% by 2037.

•

Setting a minimum energy efficiency standard of EPC Band B by 2030 for
privately rented commercial buildings in England and Wales.

•

Establishing large scale trials of hydrogen for heating to take decisions in 2026 on
the role of hydrogen in decarbonising heating, and consult on the case for enabling
or requiring hydrogen-ready boilers and broader heating system efficiencies.

•

Continuing to grow and decarbonise the UK Heat Network market through the £338
million Heat Network Transformation Programme of which at least £270m will go
towards the Green Heat Network Fund, introducing sector regulation and new heat
network zones by 2025.

•

Launching a new world-class policy framework for energy-related products to
ensure products use less energy, reducing emissions and household bills.

Progress to date
1. The UK has around 30 million buildings46
and includes some of the oldest building stock
in Europe.47 In total, buildings are responsible
for around 17% of our national emissions.48
Currently, 1.7 million fossil fuel heating systems
are installed per year (gas, oil, and coal).49 The
vast majority of emissions from buildings result
from heating. Including indirect emissions (e.g.
from electricity generation) emissions from
heating buildings make up around 78% of all
buildings emissions and about 21% of all UK
emissions.50 Overall, between 1990 and 2019,
net UK greenhouse gas emissions from heat
and buildings decreased by 17%.
136

2. The package of measures presented
here, and in our Heat and Buildings Strategy
(HBS) and associated consultations, delivers
on commitments made in the Ten Point Plan
for a Green Industrial Revolution and the
Energy White Paper. In the Ten Point Plan,
we committed to deliver greener buildings.
Since then, we have announced £60 million
to support decarbonisation of Social Housing
and have allocated over £1 billion from the
Public Sector Decarbonisation Scheme, in
doing so, supporting up to 30,000 jobs.

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy
3. Homes: The UK already has a strong
track record improving energy performance,
with 40% of our homes now above Energy
Performance (EPC) Band C, up from just 9%
in 2008. There are approximately 28 million
households in the UK,51 and 86% of homes
in England use natural gas boilers.52 Across
the UK, 9% of the energy consumed to heat
homes is provided by other fossil fuels, such
as oil and coal, generally in homes that do
not have access to the gas grid.53 In 2019,
approximately 15 million (60%) of homes in
England had a lower energy performance,
with ratings of EPC band D and below.54 The
largest proportion of homes in England are
owner-occupied (64% in 2019), with a much
smaller proportion being socially rented (17%
in 2019), or privately rented (19% in 2019).55
Owner-occupied homes are now the worst

performing tenure, with the greatest proportion
of homes below EPC band D.56 Improving the
energy performance of all homes and taking a
‘fabric first’ approach, by improving the energy
efficiency will be key to ensuring the transition
to low carbon heating is cost effective.57
4. Non-domestic buildings: There are
approximately 1.7 million non-domestic
(commercial, industrial and public) properties
in England and Wales.58 Non-domestic
buildings account for around a quarter
of UK building emissions.59 Commercial
and industrial buildings over 1,000 m2 are
responsible for over half of the energy used by
commercial and industrial buildings (excluding
process heat) but account for only 5% of the
stock.60 Public sector buildings account for
about 9% of building emissions.61

Net zero transition and economic opportunities
5. By 2050, buildings will need to be almost
completely decarbonised, by making use of a
combination of technologies to minimise their
carbon emissions and maximise their energy
performance. The scale of this challenge is
significant, but we will take an approach that
goes with the grain of consumer behaviour
and maximises consumer choice, to ensure a
smooth and gradual transition for households
and businesses. Much like the move to electric
vehicles, the move to low carbon options
such as electric heat pumps will be a gradual
transition from niche product to mainstream
consumer option. To ensure that we all benefit
from cleaner, warmer and comfier buildings,
will need to improve the energy efficiency
of our buildings and products, end the use
of fossil fuel heating systems and switch to
low carbon sources, and integrate the use of
smart technologies that give more control to
consumers.

Seizing new opportunities
6. The decarbonisation trajectory of the sector
presents significant potential for investment
and export opportunities for goods and
services. Deployment of energy efficiency
measures and low carbon heating in domestic
and non-domestic buildings, in line with the
ambitions and outcomes in the Heat and
Buildings Strategy, will drive up to £6 billion
gross value added (GVA) per year by 2030.62
7. This will be investment not just in the
buildings themselves, but in the infrastructure
that supplies them. Government support will
stimulate this investment and will need to be
focussed on growing key markets for low
carbon heat and supporting vulnerable and
low-income households, the social housing
sector, and the public sector.

137

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
8. Decarbonising the heat and buildings
sector will regenerate communities and open
up new employment opportunities right
around the UK. Based on current estimates,
policies and proposals to reduce emissions
from buildings could support up to 100,000
jobs by the middle of the 2020s and up to
175,000 in 2030. Jobs will be supported
across a range of areas – from manufacturing
to services, and from installation to research
and development.

•

Improving health. COVID-19 has
highlighted the importance of good
ventilation in buildings. Improving the
energy performance of our buildings,
whilst ensuring good ventilation, will
ensure they are efficient and healthy
environments. This can help avoid many
physical illnesses, including heart and lung
conditions65. Reducing the number of fossil
fuel boilers will also significantly reduce
the various pollutants emitted, including
nitrous oxides, which negatively impact
human health. Improved thermal comfort
also leads to better health and wellbeing
as well as reducing the likelihood of
condensation and mould.

•

Increasing property value. Studies
indicate that more energy efficient
properties typically have a higher value
than less efficient ones. Evidence from a
study commissioned by BEIS indicated
that properties with an EPC C rating
were worth around 5% more than those
currently at EPC D rating, after controlling
for other factors such as property size and
archetype.66

9. Decarbonising buildings will deliver a range
of benefits:
•

•

•

Levelling up. Decarbonisation will support
clean, local growth in every region of the
UK, while investing in equality of living
standards and job creation. Reducing
heat and buildings emissions will require
installing energy efficiency measures and
new heating systems, which rely on local
supply chains and businesses.
Reducing energy bills and business
operating costs. Inefficient homes are
more expensive to run. The Energy
Efficiency Infrastructure Group estimate
that upgrading all UK homes to EPC
band C could provide annual energy cost
savings of £7.5 billion.63
Tackling fuel poverty. In 2014, the
Government introduced a statutory fuel
poverty target for England, to improve as
many fuel-poor homes as is reasonably
practicable to a minimum EPC rating of
band C by the end of 2030. Tangible,
targeted support for more deprived areas
can be achieved through action to upgrade
poor-performing buildings, leading to
warmer, healthier homes and lower energy
bills. We recently published an updated
fuel poverty strategy for England.64

138

Our 2050 vision and how
we get there
10. Our approach to this transition must be
affordable and achievable for all and, following
successes in power and electric vehicles, we
will utilise long-term signals alongside early
investments to bring down costs and improve
consumer offers:
•

Investing in innovation. Continuing to
work with industry to refine processes and
technologies to deliver value-for-money
and value for the UK economy – with an
emphasis on making technology cheaper,
easier to install and designed to appeal to
consumers. We are investing in technology
now, in trialling hydrogen ahead of
strategic decisions on the role of hydrogen
for heating in 2026; and £60 million in heat
pump innovation – making them beautiful,
smaller and easier to install.

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy
•

Prioritising no or low regrets actions.
Reducing bills through a fabric-first
approach to improving building thermal
efficiency through, for example, insulation,
draught-proofing and increasing the energy
performance and capability of products
and appliances.67

•

•

Growing supply chains and bringing
down costs: Making heat pumps as
cheap to buy and run as a gas boiler by
growing the heat pump market to support
600,000 installations per year by 2028 and
expanding UK manufacturing – reducing
costs by at least 25-50% by 2025 and to
parity with gas boilers by 2030. To help
achieve this we are announcing a new
£450 million Boiler Upgrade Scheme –
offering households £5,000 grants when
they install an air source heat pump.

11. The benefits of more efficient, low
carbon buildings for consumers are clear:
smarter, better performing buildings, reduced
energy bills and healthier, more comfortable
environments. Households and businesses
will need to play their part in decarbonising
their buildings, but we need to ensure that the
costs of doing so fall fairly across society.

•

Continuing to support those most in
need. Supporting the vulnerable through
the transition to low carbon buildings
and meeting our statutory fuel poverty
target. We will continue to ensure financial
support is available for those who need
it most. We are investing a further £1.75
billion in funding for our Home Upgrade
Grant and Social Housing Decarbonisation
Fund schemes, which provide support for
low-income households in installing energy
efficiency and low carbon heating.

•

Balancing certainty and flexibility.
Providing stability for investment through
clear long-term signals that work with the
grain of the market and minimise impact
on consumers. For example, aiming to
phase out the installation of new and
replacement natural gas boilers by 2035, in
line with the natural replacement cycle and
only once costs of low carbon alternatives
have come down.

•

Ensuring buildings are resilient to the
impacts of climate change. Implementing
measures to ensure homes and buildings
are well ventilated and protected against
rising temperatures.

Taking a whole-sector and wholesystem approach. Considering the
heating system in the context of what is
most appropriate for the whole building to
minimise costs, as well as accounting for
local suitability, environmental impacts, and
air quality.

12. Based on our whole-system modelling,
by 2050, emissions associated with heat and
buildings could need to drop by 98-100%
compared to 2019, down to 0-2 space
between digit and unit MtCO2e. In the interim,
to meet our NDC and CB6 targets, we expect
emissions could fall by 25-37% by 2030 and
47-62% by 2035, compared to 2019 levels.
These figures are based on an indicative heat
and buildings pathway contributing to the
whole-economy net zero and interim targets
(see figure 20 below).

139

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Figure 20: Indicative heat and buildings emissions pathway to 2037
140

Emissions (MtCO2e)

120
100
Pre-NZS policies

80
60

NZS delivery
pathway

40
20

2050
Range

0
1990

1995

2000

2005

2010

2015

2020

2025

2030

2035

2040

2045

2050

Source: BEIS analysis

13. We have developed three high-level
illustrative scenarios to reflect different
technology mixes that would allow us to
decarbonise heating of buildings, contributing
towards meeting our Carbon Budget 6
target. We are committed to taking strategic
decisions on the role of hydrogen for heating
in 2026, following trials, which will further
inform out pathway to 2050. Realising these
scenarios would be consistent with our
trajectory to net zero in 2050. These are: a
high hydrogen scenario, a high electrification
scenario and a dual energy system scenario.

140

14. In all scenarios the following will
be important:
•

Improving the energy performance of
buildings to keep buildings warm and
comfortable, keep bills down, minimise
the impacts of transition on the energy
system, and make switching to low carbon
heating easier.

•

Phase out of heating appliances that
are only capable of burning fossil fuels,
consistent with our ambition to phase out
the installation of new and replacement
natural gas boilers by 2035, and phase
out the installation of high-carbon fossil
fuel boilers in properties not connected to
the gas grid by 2026 (and 2024 for nondomestic buildings).

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy
•

•

Heat pumps: these will be the best low
carbon heating option for some types
of buildings, for example, if they are
new buildings or off the gas grid. We
have set a target of 600,000 heat pump
installations per year by 2028, from roughly
35,000 currently. We expect this to be
the minimum number of heat pumps that
need to be deployed each year after 2028
across any scenario, and all scenarios
other than high hydrogen will require much
higher deployment. Of the 600,000 heat
pumps per year, we expect about 200,000
to be in new build properties.
Heat networks: they use hot water in pipes
to deliver heating (and in some cases cold
water for cooling) to many consumers from
a centralised heat source. Heat networks
could supply up to 20% of UK heat
demand by 2050, up from 3% of UK heat
supply today.68

15. To achieve the level of emissions
reductions in the heat and buildings sector
indicated by our delivery pathway to 2037,
we will need additional public and private
investment of approximately £200 billion.

High electrification scenario
16. In this scenario, we assume there is no
significant use of hydrogen for heating in
buildings. This may be because hydrogen
is not proven to be feasible, cost-effective,
or preferable as a solution for low carbon
heating, or because its deployment has been
significantly delayed. In this scenario, we
would need to continue the rapid growth of
the heat pump market beyond 600,000 per
year in 2028 to up to 1.9 million per year from
2035, resulting in roughly 13 million homes
using low carbon heating systems by 2035 –
around 11 million with heat pumps and around
2 million using heat networks.

17. To ensure we drive this level of heat pump
deployment, further policy would be required
to phase out installation of new fossil fuel
heating faster. We could grow the heat pump
market and transition consumers in stages,
while continuing to follow natural replacement
cycles to work with the grain of consumer
behaviour. For homes, we could focus initially
on key segments of the domestic building
stock, for example based on tenure, property
age or fabric efficiency.
18. The increased deployment of heat pumps
will be accompanied by investment in the
infrastructure we need to meet increased
electricity demand, including the generation
of low carbon electricity and additional
grid capacity.

High hydrogen scenario
19. In this scenario, hydrogen has proven
feasible and preferable as a solution for
heating most UK buildings, and decisions
taken in 2026 set the UK on a path to
converting most of the national gas grid to
hydrogen. We would expect to begin the
transition by converting a pilot hydrogen town
by the end of the decade and then accelerate
rollout. The conversion would likely start by
building out from existing hydrogen production
and use in industrial clusters, and roll-out
would involve switchover on an area-by-area
basis in different locations.
20. Due to the infrastructure and supply
chain requirements of a hydrogen conversion
we estimate that in this scenario, we would
convert around 4 million homes to using
low carbon hydrogen by 2035. New heating
system installations should be low carbon or
hydrogen-ready, meaning ready for a planned
future conversion, from 2035. We estimate
that by 2035 roughly 13 million homes will
have low carbon heating, comprising around
7 million with heat pumps, 4 million using
hydrogen, and around 2 million homes using
heat networks.

141

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Dual energy system scenarios
21. In this scenario, both hydrogen and
electrification prove feasible and preferable
as heating solutions to large numbers of
consumers. This could arise in several forms:
•

All or most of the gas grid is converted
to low carbon hydrogen, but the costs
and benefits of switching to hydrogen
versus installing a heat pump are viewed
differently by different consumers. This
could result in a high switchover to both
hydrogen and heat pumps on the gas grid.

•

There is partial but still extensive
conversion of the gas grid to hydrogen,
based on differing geographical or built
environment factors. This would require
careful consideration of which parts of
the grid would be converted and where
responsibility for decisions about the costs
and benefits of converting different areas
should lie.

142

•

There is widespread consumer demand
for hybrid systems that utilise a mix of
energy sources.

22. It is too early to determine the policy
framework that might support this mixed
transition. Any scenario in which hydrogen
is an available option for consumers will
require public policy decisions to enable
cost-effective and co-ordinated investment in
infrastructure and supply chains, and ensure
consumer choice and other public interests
are protected. If the case for converting the
network to hydrogen differs strongly from area
to area, more of the preparation may need to
take place at a regional or local level.

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy

Future scenarios - what factors
we are going to consider in
making decisions for mass
decarbonisation of heating
Over the 2020s, we will need to start taking
more decisive steps about which technologies
and infrastructure should be rolled out, where
and when, and accordingly, where we need
to target investment, skills, and other enabling
actions. We aim to make decisions about
the role of hydrogen in heating by 2026, and
commit to reviewing existing institutional
arrangements, as stated in our Heat and
Buildings Strategy, helping ensure that we
have an appropriate framework in place to
facilitate decision making at all levels.

Upfront costs
The cost of installing a heat pump is currently
significantly more expensive than gas boilers
and installation often requires additional
ancillary works, such as upgrading radiators.
This can result in total installed costs of
around £10,000 for the average home.
However, the cost of installing heat pumps
should fall significantly as the market scales
up, and the Heat and Buildings Strategy has
set ambitions on reducing the installed cost
of heat pumps over this decade. We are
also providing subsidy for first movers: through
the Boiler Upgrade Scheme, which will provide
grants of £5,000 towards the cost of installing
an air source heat pump and £6,000 for
Ground Source Heat Pumps. We will look to
help the market drive down the upfront costs,
which leading market participants believe
can make heat pumps as cheap to buy and
run as a gas boiler by 2030. This ambition
reflects the opportunity for innovation and
economies of scale across the value chain
and has been seen in other technologies

such as solar PV, wind and electric vehicles.
Conversely, it is likely hydrogen appliances will
cost approximately the same as natural gas
appliances (around £3k).

Running costs
Heat pumps are significantly (2.5 – 3x) more
efficient than gas boilers and may get even
more efficient, therefore requiring much less
energy to run. Currently, on average heating
a home with a heat pump costs more than
with a gas boiler. This is, in part, due to policy
and social costs charged on electricity bills.
However, by addressing existing distortions
between electricity and gas prices, we will
ensure heat pumps will be no more expensive
to run than gas boilers.
It is too early to properly estimate the running
costs of hydrogen heating. The cost of
producing hydrogen is currently higher than
fossil fuels. Though the future production
costs of hydrogen will not be the same as the
ultimate cost to consumers, using hydrogen
for heating could cost more than natural
gas heating. There remains uncertainty on
other issues that will impact on hydrogen
costs, such as, new and innovative means
of production, the cost to store it, new and
innovative business models, and the cost
of any changes to the gas grid that may
be required.

143

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Consumer journey
Heat pumps, unlike most traditional fossil fuel
boilers, tend to work by providing an ambient
temperature, rather than short blasts through
very hot radiators. Evaluation and research
have shown that the majority of consumers are
happy with the performance of their systems,
and smart controls help consumers with this
change. Installing heat pumps at the same
time as carrying out building energy efficiency
and heating system improvements allows for
a single intervention and could prove more
efficient for many households or businesses.
Hydrogen boilers will likely work in a similar
way to gas boilers. Some adaptive measures
might be needed to enable hydrogen, but
requirements for this and associated costs
are still uncertain and could vary significantly
between different types of buildings. When
switching over to hydrogen, the initial grid
conversion process is likely to require streets
or areas to be converted at the same time. It
is expected that an engineer will need to have
access to homes to do the changeover in a
particular timeframe, and building residents
are unlikely to have control over when
this happens.

144

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy

Policies and proposals
Decarbonising heat
23. Much like the move to electric vehicles,
the move to heat pumps will be a gradual
transition from niche product to mainstream
consumer option. Our core commitment is
that we will aim to phase out the installation
of new and replacement natural gas boilers
in homes and buildings by 2035 at the latest,
once costs have come down. This would be
in line with the natural replacement cycle, and
include hydrogen ready boilers in any areas
not converting to hydrogen, to ensure all
heating systems used in 2050 are compatible
with net zero.
24. Accelerating heat pump deployment.
We will grow the UK heat pump market
to support 600,000 installations per year
by 2028. As part of this, and working with
industry to do so, we will aim for cost parity
between heat pumps and gas boilers by 2030
with significant cost reductions of at least
25-50% by 2025. To achieve this, we will
introduce a range of new policies to support
heat pump deployment, including a new £450
million Boiler Upgrade Scheme over 2022/23
to 2024/25 with grants of £5,000 for an air
source heat pump. In addition, we will consult
on phasing out the installation of new oil, coal,
and LPG heating, and replace with low carbon
alternatives such as heat pumps in off gas
grid non-domestic buildings from 2024 and
homes from 2026, and we will launch a new
market-based incentive for heating system
manufacturers, similar to that for CO2 in cars.
Subject to strategic decisions on the pathways
and market conditions, we would look to grow
the heat pump market beyond 600,000 per
year in 2028 and potentially up to 1.7 million
a year by 2035, and we will consult on our
proposed approach to doing this.

25. We are investing £60 million in a ‘Heat
Pump Ready’ Programme which will support
the development of innovative solutions to
improve deployment, tools and technologies
across the heat pump sector. These new
opportunities will build on our previous Energy
Innovation Programme activities, such as the
Electrification of Heat Demonstration Project.
26. Heat networks. Under the £338 million
Heat Network Transformation Programme,
we will launch the £270 million Green Heat
Network Fund to grow the market for low
carbon heat networks. We will also pass
new legislation to regulate the sector for
consumers, give heat networks the statutory
powers they need to build, and regulate
the carbon emissions of projects from the
early 2030s. We will also deliver new heat
networks zones in England by 2025 where
heat networks are the default solution for
decarbonising heating. Finally, we will work
with industry to increase the capacity and
capability of the UK supply chain to support
the sector to reach its growth potential
and look to improve performance of legacy
networks through the Heat Network
Efficiency Scheme.

145

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
27. Hydrogen heating. We will work in
partnership with industry and other key
stakeholders to thoroughly assess the
feasibility, safety, consumer experience and
other costs and benefits, of hydrogen as an
option for heating our homes and workplaces.
We will support industry to develop and deliver
large scale trials of hydrogen for heating,
including a neighbourhood trial by 2023 and
a village scale trial by 2025, and develop
proposals for a possible ‘hydrogen town’
before the end of the decade. We will develop
the evidence base and frameworks necessary
to take strategic decisions on the role of
hydrogen in decarbonising heat in 2026. In
the shorter-term, we will work with the Health
and Safety Executive and industry partners
to enable up to 20% hydrogen blending in
suitable areas of the GB gas networks subject
to the success of testing and trials, and value
for money assessment.
28. Hydrogen-ready boilers and boiler
standards. We are aiming to consult shortly
on the case for enabling or requiring new
gas boilers to be readily convertible to use
hydrogen (‘hydrogen-ready’) by 2026. We will
also use this consultation to test proposals
on the future of broader boiler and heating
system efficiency and explore the best ways to
reduce carbon emissions from our gas heating
systems over the next decade.
29. Biomethane in the gas grid. We will
deliver a new Green Gas Support Scheme
(GGSS) to support the injection of biomethane
from anaerobic digestion (expected to
deliver 2.8TWh of renewable heat per year in
2030/31), and we will explore the development
of commercial-scale gasification and the
replacement of the GGSS with a long-term
biomethane support scheme.

Improving buildings
30. Our core commitment is to reduce bills,
whilst improving comfort, health and home
value, through ensuring as many homes as
possible to achieve EPC Band C by 2035
146

at the latest, where cost-effective, practical,
and affordable.
31. New Buildings. We will introduce
regulations from 2025 through the Future
Homes Standard to ensure all new homes
in England are ready for net zero by having
a high standard of energy efficiency and low
carbon heating installed as standard. This
should mean that all new homes will be fitted
with a low carbon heat source such as a heat
pump or connected to a low carbon heat
network. To reinforce this, we will consult on
whether it is appropriate to end new gas grid
connections, or whether to remove the duty to
connect from the Gas Distribution Networks.
As an interim measure to the Future Homes
Standard, we plan to introduce an uplift in
standards, effective from June 2022, for
England that would result in a 31% reduction
in carbon emissions from new homes
compared to current standards. We will also
respond to our consultation for the Future
Buildings Standard for new non-domestic
buildings.
32. Domestic private rented sector.
We will build on our 2020 consultation on
strengthening the Minimum Energy Efficiency
Standards to EPC band C by 2028 to set long
term minimum regulatory standards consistent
with our net zero commitment for private rental
sector. We are aiming to publish a response
to this consultation by the end of the year We
have provided significant additional support
to local authorities to ensure compliance and
enforcement of these regulations, building on
earlier compliance and enforcement pilots.
This includes providing £4.3m to 57 local
authorities to support activity in these areas.
We plan to scale up activity further in the
coming years. We have also set out proposals
to strengthen the compliance and enforcement
framework under our recent EPC Band C
consultation. This includes the introduction
of a compliance and exemption database to
support local authority enforcement of the
Regulation.

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy
33. Owner occupied homes. We are also
exploring opportunities to improve the energy
performance of owner-occupier homes.
We have conducted a series of stakeholder
workshops on the case for action, with over
50 representatives from the housing sector,
landlord representatives, retrofit supply chain,
NGOs, and consumer organisations. We
plan to consult on options to upgrade homes
in the owner occupier sector. We will work
with owner-occupiers to help them improve
the liveability of their homes. The provision
of green finance will be an important step in
making this easier and more accessible.
34. Social housing. We will provide £800
million additional funding to the Social
Housing Decarbonisation Fund (SHDF) over
2022/23 to 2024/25, which will deliver energy
performance improvements to social housing.
We will also consider setting a long-term
regulatory standard to improve social housing
to EPC Band C and consider levers required
to decarbonise the stock in line with net zero.
We will consult the sector before setting any
regulatory standard.
35. Low Income/Fuel Poor Consumers.
We will ensure as many fuel-poor homes as
reasonably practicable achieve a minimum
energy efficiency rating of C by the end of
2030. To help achieve this, we will provide
£950 million additional funding over 2022/23
to 2024/25 for off-gas-grid properties through
the Home Upgrade Grant (HUG) to provide
ongoing support for low-income households
living off the mains gas grid with energy
efficiency and low carbon heating upgrades.
We will also expand and extend the Energy
Company Obligation Scheme and the Warm
Homes Discount Scheme until 2026.
36. Net zero backstop for homes. We
will consider on an ultimate backstop date
to ensure that all homes meet a net zero
minimum energy performance standard before
2050, where cost effective, practical, and
affordable.

37. Public Sector. We have committed to
halve direct emissions from public sector
buildings by 2032, against 2017 levels,
and we aim to further reduce emissions
from public sector buildings by 75% by
2037. To help achieve this, we will provide
£1.425 billion additional funding for the Public
Sector Decarbonisation Scheme (PSDS)
over 2022/23 to 2024/25, and through our
Greening Government Commitments (GGCs)
which sets targets to reduce emissions from
central government departments and armslength bodies. We have also initiated the
Public Sector Low Carbon Skills Fund which
provides complementary funding alongside the
PSDS to enable public sector organisations
to acquire expert skills in order to unlock
decarbonisation projects.
38. Non-domestic buildings. The Energy
White Paper set a minimum energy efficiency
standard of EPC Band B by 2030 for
privately rented commercial buildings in
England and Wales. Later this year we plan
to consult on regulating the non-domestic
owner-occupied building stock, and we are
considering whether this should align with
the private rented sector minimum energy
efficiency standards. We will also respond
to the 2021 consultation on introducing a
performance-based policy framework in large
commercial and industrial buildings and pilot
the scheme in 2022.
39. We will look to consult stakeholders on
the Small Business Energy Efficiency Scheme
(SBEES) later this year. The scheme will aim
to remove barriers for SMEs in accessing
energy efficiency measures, drive forward
better buildings performance and aid SMEs
in meeting regulatory standards. Finally,
we have consulted on strengthening the
Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme (ESOS),
which is a mandatory energy assessment
scheme for large businesses’ energy use and
opportunities to improve energy efficiency.

147

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
•

Energy-related products. We have
published a policy framework setting out
illustrative proposals for raising minimum
energy performance standards and
improving consumer information for a
range of high potential products, including
but not limited to space heating, cooking,
taps and showers and lighting. We plan
to consult on more concrete proposals
between 2022 and 2023 ahead of
implementing measures from 2025.

Enabling actions
40. There are a range of barriers to home
energy performance improvements, which we
will also need to address to help people act:
•

Advice & information. Our existing
Simple Energy Advice service has
received over 1.5m users to date. We will
enhance our digitally led service, and are
considering options to support tailored
retrofit advice in local areas. The aim is to
create a Government-led home energy
advice journey, supported by tailored
local advice. This includes moving our
Simple Energy Advice service to GOV.UK,
which will improve user experience, and
supporting local advice provision. This will
help households to improve the energy
performance of their homes, and move
towards net zero.

148

•

Green finance. Catalysing the market
for Green Finance is a priority. We
are working with mortgage lenders to
support homeowners to improve the
energy performance of their properties
and will publish our response to our
lenders consultation in due course.
Government is also exploring the case for
a further green home finance innovation
programme, focussed on supporting
lenders to develop green finance products
targeted at consumer types who will be
impacted by future regulation, and which
the market is unlikely to develop on its
own in the short term. BEIS has invited
the UK Infrastructure Bank (UKIB) to help
steer this work, and we will work further
with the UKIB to explore whether they
can play a wider role in scaling up green
home finance.

41. Rebalancing energy prices: Clean,
cheap electricity is an everyday essential. We
have seen the impact of overreliance on gas
pushing up prices for hardworking people but
our plan to expand our domestic renewables
will push down electricity wholesale prices.
However, current pricing of electricity and gas
does not incentivise consumers to make green
choices, such as switching from gas boilers
to electric heat pumps. We want to reduce
electricity costs so we will also look at options
to shift or rebalance energy levies (such as RO
and FiTs) and obligations (such as ECO) away
from electricity bills over this decade. This will
include looking at options to expand carbon
pricing and remove costs from electricity bills
while ensuring that we continue to limit any
impact on bills overall. We know that in the
long run, green products are more efficient
and cheaper, and we are putting fairness and
affordability at the heart of our approach. We
will launch a Fairness and Affordability Call for
Evidence on these options for energy levies
and obligations to help rebalance electricity
and gas prices and to support green choices,
with a view to taking decisions in 2022.

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy
42. Developing a workforce pipeline with
the skills to meet the requirements of net
zero transition:
•

The increase in deployment of low carbon
heating systems over the coming decade
will require a significant escalation in the
number of trained, high-quality installers.
With this in mind, we have launched the
independent Green Jobs Taskforce with
key industry bodies to advise on how we
can have the skilled workforce to deliver
net zero and support people in high
carbon sectors with the transition.

•

We will encourage current gas engineers,
electricians, and those with transferrable
skills in complementary sectors, to
retrain and specialise in smarter, greener,
and cleaner technologies. There are
over 140,000 plumbers and heating
and ventilation engineers in the UK.
Approximately 90% of builders stated
they would be willing to retrain to meet
the demand for new roles and skills’
changes in the future.69 Attracting new
entrants to the sector also provides a great
opportunity to diversify the workforce. We
will work with industry to support training
and new routes of entry to help boost
heat pump installer numbers and other
areas of skills shortage to support the
decarbonisation of homes. We will also
work with industry and the low carbon
projects supported through the Green Heat
Network Fund to increase opportunities to
gain skills in the heat networks sector.

•

We will also continue to work with Ofgem,
distribution network operators, and other
local actors on the approach to planning
the network in Great Britain and delivering
smart, secure, cost-effective solutions.
This will include considering the potential
for storage and hybrid technologies in
combination with flexible tariffs.

149

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Working together across the UK
Examples of policy action by the Scottish Government, Welsh Government
and Northern Ireland Executive
UK Government is working across all levels of government and with Devolved Administrations
to ensure consistent action to reduce emissions across the heat and buildings sector, and
across the UK.

Wales

Scotland

The Optimised Retrofit Programme is testing
a new approach to decarbonising homes,
based on the recommendations of the Jofeh
Report.70 The programme is delivering fabric
improvements, heating technology and
intelligent use of energy supplies to more
than 1,500 homes across Wales. Significant
Welsh Government investment is supporting
social landlords to decarbonise 230,000 social
homes over the next decade, and the learning
from the programme will be used to help
decarbonise Wales’s 1.2 million private-rented
and owner-occupier homes.

The Scottish Government published its
Heat in Buildings Strategy on 7 October
2021. This sets out a vision and actions for
the decarbonisation of heat in homes and
buildings in line with Scotland’s statutory
climate targets. The Scottish Government will
allocate at least £1.8 billion over the next five
years to support the accelerated deployment
of heat and energy efficiency measures in
homes and buildings. This investment will
help to cut emissions, create jobs, strengthen
supply chains, and tackle fuel poverty. The
Scottish Government offers cashback grants
to all homeowners as part of the Home Energy
Scotland (HES) Loan Scheme, up to £6,000
for energy efficiency improvements and up
to £7,500 for new renewable heating. It is
also bringing forward the requirement for all
homes to be upgraded to meet at least EPC
C standards or equivalent by 2033 with the
majority meeting this standard by 2030.
Subject to devolved competence, the Scottish
Government has committed to phasing
out the need to install new or replacement
fossil fuel boilers, in off gas areas from 2025
and in on gas areas from 2030, subject to
technological developments and decisions
by the UK Government in reserved areas.
It is currently developing regulations which
will require new buildings receiving a warrant
from 2024 to use zero emissions heating
and cooling.

150

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy

Northern Ireland
A phased programme is planned to uplift
Northern Ireland’s building regulations, taking
developments in other administrations into
account, to provide ultra-high energy efficient
building fabric and services with low carbon
heating standards for new buildings as soon
as is practicable and no later than 2026/27.
Consideration may be given to earlier uptake
of requirements for low carbon heating
solutions from 2022/23, if deemed feasible
following consultation with industry.

There are several schemes currently available
to support energy efficiency improvements
and the installation of lower carbon heating,
including the Boiler Replacement Scheme,
Affordable Warmth, and the Northern Ireland
Sustainable Energy Programme (NISEP). A
new Northern Ireland Energy Strategy is
expected to be published by the end of
2021, which will provide further information
on proposals to phase out coal and solid
fuels, along with fossil fuel home heating oil.
The Energy Strategy will also provide further
information on proposals to decarbonise
the natural gas network, including through
future injection of biomethane and potential
hydrogen blending. Further detail will also
be provided on the transition to low carbon
heating options, such as heat pumps, and
future proposed support schemes, including
energy efficiency and low carbon heating pilot
schemes, which are intended to be launched
in 2022/23.

151

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

3v. Transport
Setting the pace for greener, better transport
Our Key Commitments
•

End the sale of new petrol and diesel cars and vans from 2030; from 2035, all new
cars and vans must be zero emission at the tailpipe.

•

Introduce a zero emission vehicle mandate setting targets for a percentage of
manufacturers’ new car and van sales to be zero emission each year from 2024.

•

Take forward our pledge to end the sale of all new, non-zero emission road vehicles
by 2040, from motorcycles to buses and HGVs, subject to consultation.

•

Ensure the UK’s charging infrastructure network is reliable, accessible, and meets
the demands of all motorists. Later this year, we will publish an EV infrastructure
strategy, setting out our vision for infrastructure rollout, and roles for the public and
private sectors in achieving it.

•

Building on the £1.9 billion from Spending Review 2020, the Government has
committed an additional £620 million to support the transition to electric vehicles.
The funding will support the rollout of charging infrastructure, with a particular focus
on local on-street residential charging, and targeted plug-in vehicle grants.

•

Build a globally competitive zero emission vehicle supply chain and ensure our
automotive sector is at the forefront of the transition to net zero.

•

Lead by example with 25% of the government car fleet ultra low emission by
December 2022 and all the government car and van fleet zero emission by 2027.

•

Take action to increase average road vehicle occupancy by 2030 and reduce the
barriers to data sharing across the transport sector.

•

Maximise carbon savings from the use of low carbon fuels, including by increasing
the main Renewable Transport Fuel Obligation (RTFO) target.

•

Increase the share of journeys taken by public transport, cycling and walking.

•

Support decarbonisation by investing more than £12 billion in local transport
systems over the current Parliament.

•

Invest £2 billion in cycling and walking, building first hundreds, then thousands of
miles of segregated cycle lane and more low-traffic neighbourhoods with the aim
that half of all journeys in towns and cities will be cycled or walked by 2030. As
announced in the Transport Decarbonisation Plan, we will create at least one zero
emission transport city.

152

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy
•

Invest £3 billion in the National Bus Strategy, creating integrated networks, more
frequent services, and bus lanes to speed journeys, and support delivery of 4,000
new zero emission buses and the infrastructure needed to support them.

•

Electrify more railway lines as part of plans to deliver a net zero rail network by 2050,
with the ambition to remove all diesel-only trains by 2040.

•

Plot a course to net zero for the UK domestic maritime sector, phase out the sale of
new non-zero emission domestic shipping vessels and accelerate the development
of zero emission technology and infrastructure in the UK. We will engage with
industry to explore establishing a UK Shipping Office for Reducing Emissions (UKSHORE) to transform the UK into a global leader in the design and manufacturing of
clean maritime technology.

•

Become a leader in zero-emission flight, kick-starting commercialisation of UK
sustainable aviation fuels (SAF), and developing a UK SAF mandate, to enable the
delivery of 10% SAF by 2030, and we will be supporting UK industry with a £180m
funding to support the development of SAF plants.

Progress to date
1. Domestic transport has the largest share of
UK greenhouse gas emissions of any sector
across the economy, at 23% in 2019. The
majority (55%) of these emissions are from
passenger cars, contributing 68 MtCO2e.
This is followed by heavy goods vehicles and
light goods vehicles contributing 19 MtCO2e
(16%) and 19 MtCO2e (16%) respectively.
The remaining emissions in domestic
shipping, road transport, rail, and domestic
aviation contribute a combined further
16 MtCO2e (13%).71
2. We must deliver a step change in the
breadth and scale of our ambitions and, to
this end, in July 2021 we published our world
leading Transport Decarbonisation Plan. This
covered all areas of transport and set out an
ambitious but deliverable pathway to reaching
net zero and delivering against carbon
budgets along the way. The pathway we have
set out is not about stopping people from
doing things. Rather, it’s about doing the same
things differently. We want to be a world leader
in green technologies, and encourage more
sustainable travel choices.

3. Removing tailpipe emissions from road
transport is a clear priority and we must
continue the progress we have made to date.
We have expanded our commitments in this
area and will set ambitious but achievable
phase out dates for every type of road vehicle.
Alongside the Transport Decarbonisation Plan,
we published the 2035 Delivery Plan outlining
the key timelines, milestones, and progress
towards the Ten Point Plan commitment to
accelerate the shift to zero emission vehicles.
4. There are now over 600,000 plug-in electric
vehicles in the UK. In September 2021, more
than one in five new cars sold had a plug.
Additionally, more than 300 walking and
cycling schemes have been delivered since
2020. For public transport, our National Bus
Strategy for England, published in March, sets
out a vision of a transformed bus industry
and a green bus revolution. Rail is already the
greenest form of motorised transport, with
almost 38% of the network electrified and
significantly more to come as set out in the
Great British Railways White Paper in May.

153

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Net zero transition and economic opportunities
Our 2050 vision and how we
get there
5. Every place in the UK will have its own net
zero emission transport network before 2050,
serving the unique needs of its communities.
Sustainability will be at the heart of levelling up.
People everywhere will feel the benefits –
villages, towns, cities, and countryside will
be cleaner, greener, healthier, and more
prosperous and pleasant environments in
which to live, work and enjoy.

6. Based on our whole system modelling,
by 2050, total transport emissions, including
international aviation and shipping, could
need to drop by 76-86% compared to 2019,
down to 23-40MtCO2e. In the interim, to meet
our NDC and CB6 targets,72 we expect they
could fall by 22-33% by 2030 and 46-59% by
2035, compared to 2019 levels. These figures
are based on an indicative transport sector
pathway contributing to the whole-economy
net zero and interim targets. Our potential
pathway also indicates residual emissions
from domestic transport could need to fall
by around 34-45% by 2030 and 65-76% by
2035, relative to 2019 levels (see figure 21).
We anticipate that international aviation and
shipping emissions could need to fall by up
to 12% by 2035, relative to 2019 levels (see
figure 22).

Figure 21: Indicative domestic transport emissions pathway to 2037
160
140

Emissions (MtCO2e)

120
100
Pre-TDP & NZS policies
and proposals

80
60
40

NZS delivery
pathway

20

2050
Range

0
1990

1995

Source: BEIS analysis

154

2000

2005

2010

2015

2020

2025

2030

2035

2040

2045

2050

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy

Figure 22: Indicative international aviation and shipping emissions
pathway to 2037
60
Pre-TDP & NZS policies
and proposals

Emissions (MtCO2e)

50

NZS delivery pathway

40
30
20

2050
Range

10
Short-term COVID - 19
Uncertainty

0
1990

1995

2000

2005

2010

2015

2020

2025

2030

2035

2040

2045

2050

Source: BEIS analysis

7. Much of the change needed to deliver
net zero for the transport sector is already
underway and makes sense even without
the global imperative of climate change.
Decarbonisation will deliver fundamentally
better transport, for everyone, every day. It
will make it faster and more efficient, as well
as cleaner, and provide benefits including
increased reliability and better connectivity.
This is also a huge industrial opportunity,
a once in a generation chance to increase
economic growth and future prosperity – using
electricity, low carbon hydrogen, sustainable
low carbon fuels and pedal power – to invest
in new jobs across our country.

8. Our Transport Decarbonisation Plan sets
out this ‘green print’ in detail.
•

The technology transformation started
in cars and vans will spread to all road
transport, from motorcycles to buses,
coaches and HGVs. Over time, the use
of zero emission vehicles will become
even cleaner, as the use of renewable
energy in the UK’s electricity mix continues
to increase. An extensive network of
charging and refuelling infrastructure for all
vehicles will enable the transition and meet
growing demand.

155

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
•

Low carbon fuels will continue to play a
crucial role in maximising carbon savings
from road vehicles during the transition,
whilst increasingly being required in
other transport modes such as aviation
and maritime. This includes low carbon
hydrogen, which is likely to be fundamental
to achieving net zero in heavy transport
applications and represents a major
industrial opportunity.

•

UK aviation and shipping will achieve net
zero emissions by 2050. Ahead of that,
our domestic lead will act as a showcase
to the world and bolster our call to action
internationally, where cooperation and
collaboration through the International
Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) and the
International Maritime Organization (IMO),
will continue to be vital to decarbonise
these industries.

•

We cannot simply rely on the electrification
of road transport, or believe that zero
emission cars and lorries will solve all our
problems. As we build back better from
the pandemic, it will be essential to avoid
a car-led recovery. Alongside road vehicle
decarbonisation, we must increase the
share of trips taken by public transport,
cycling and walking. We want to make
these modes the natural first choice for
all who can take them. As more journeys
are cycled or walked, and taken by public
transport, the carbon, air quality, noise and
congestion benefits will be complemented
by significant improvements in public
health and wellbeing.

•

The Government has set CB6 to formally
include the UK’s share of international
aviation and shipping emissions, as
recommended by the CCC, which allows
these emissions to be accounted for
within CB6.

•

We will address aviation emissions through
new technology such as electric and
hydrogen aircraft, the commercialisation
of sustainable aviation fuels, increasing
operational efficiencies, developing and
implementing market-based measures and
GHG removal methods, while influencing
consumers to make more sustainable
choices when flying.

•

The UK will play an important role in
developing zero emission maritime
technology, such as alternative fuel
powered vessels using ammonia or
methanol produced from low carbon
hydrogen, or highly efficient batteries,
particularly where we can build on
domestic expertise to capture early
market share.

•

As we have stated in the Ten Point Plan
and the Transport Decarbonisation Plan,
we need to ensure that the taxation of
motoring keeps pace with the change to
electric vehicles to ensure that we can
continue to fund the first-class public
services and infrastructure that people and
families across the UK expect.

•

•

We will support and encourage modal shift
of freight from road to more sustainable
alternatives, such as rail, cargo bikes and
inland waterways. We will transform last
mile deliveries, with zero emission HGVs
and decarbonised deliveries made possible
through the adoption of new delivery
models, supported by accurate data and
digital innovations which drive greater
efficiencies.
The rail network will be net zero
emissions by 2050 through a sustained,
long‑term programme of investment in rail
electrification, supported by deployment of
battery and hydrogen-powered trains.

156

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy

Zero emission vehicles (ZEVs)
The transition to zero emission cars and vans is leading the way in our effort to decarbonise
transport. The car and van sector is easier to decarbonise compared to other sections
of the economy, through the combination of a proven low carbon technology that has
significant advantages over the existing high carbon technology it replaces, reducing costs
and growing consumer demand. Strong progress is already being made towards our
2030/2035 phase out commitments:
•

Demand is rising: Industry figures show over 650,000 new plug-in cars
registered in the UK since 2010, and over 1 in 7 cars sold so far in 2021
had a plug.

•

Range is increasing as costs are falling: There are 20 EV models that come
with a range of over 200 miles compared to the early Nissan Leaf models that
delivered 60 miles, and battery prices are little more than a tenth of what they
were in 2010.

•

The charging infrastructure market is growing: There are now over 25,000
public chargepoints in the UK, which includes over 4,700 rapid devices
according to industry sources. This is one of the largest networks of rapid
chargers in Europe.

Seizing new opportunities
9. Across every form of transport,
decarbonisation and growth will go hand
in hand. The UK will play a leading role
in this modern-day industrial revolution,
consolidating our position as a world leader
in green technology, science, and research.
The imperative to decarbonise brings with
it a host of other benefits, including new
business models, new modes, increasing
levels of autonomy, far better integration,
and a blurring of the distinction between
traditional forms of transport, as well as
public and private travel coming together
to offer greater choice and flexibility. We will
use research and development to build on
the expertise of business and academia,
maximising opportunities for growth,
exports and hundreds of thousands of new
high‑quality jobs.

10. To achieve the level of emissions
reductions in the transport sector indicated
by our delivery pathway to 2037, we will need
additional public and private investment of
around £220 billion.
11. Decarbonising the transport sector will
regenerate communities and open up new
employment opportunities right around the
UK. Based on current estimates, policies and
proposals to reduce emissions in the sector
could support up to 22,000 jobs in 2024 and
up to 74,000 jobs in 2030. Development of
road transport sector technologies as the
economy transitions to net zero could support
up to 71,000 jobs in 2050.

157

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
12. We need a skilled workforce capable
of developing, implementing and operating
mobility solutions in a way that maximises
the huge potential benefits they offer. The
government launched the Green Jobs
Taskforce, to advise the government, industry
and the skills sector on the action required
to deliver the jobs and skills required for the
net zero transition. Our approach on green
jobs and skills is set out in the Green Jobs,
Skills and Industries chapter of the Net
Zero Strategy.

13. Decarbonising transport will also help
achieve other benefits:
•

It will improve health by removing a source
of air pollution. There will still be particulate
emissions associated with road, rail, tyre,
and brake wear, and we are working to
tackle those too, but the toxic by-products
of burning hydrocarbon fuels will be
eliminated from the roadside and rail;

•

Physical inactivity costs the NHS up to
£1 billion per annum, with further indirect
costs of £8.2 billion – active travel can
reduce that; and

•

Over half the UK population is exposed to
daytime noise levels above recommended
limits. Zero emission vehicles – extremely
quiet at low, urban speeds – will help
address this. This will support levelling-up
and help reinvent high streets as enjoyable
places to live, work, visit and spend
leisure time.

Policies and proposals
14. As the Transport Decarbonisation Plan
and this Strategy are implemented, we will
continue to consider the views of stakeholders
from across the UK. We will engage closely
with Devolved Administrations, respecting
areas of devolved competency, as we work
towards our shared goal of achieving net zero.
We will also continue to collaborate with local
authorities and other regional bodies to identify
and support local solutions.

Cycling and walking

15. Depending on progress in the sector, at
some points additional targeted action maybe
be required, such as steps to reduce use
of the most polluting cars and tackle urban
congestion, to enable these targets to be
met. We will regularly review progress against
our targets – publishing the next transport
decarbonisation plan within five years – and
continue to adapt and take further action if
needed to decarbonise transport.

17. We will deliver the Prime Minister’s bold
vision for cycling and walking, investing
£2 billion over five years with the vision that
half of all journeys in towns and cities will
be cycled or walked by 2030. We will also
deliver thousands of miles of safe, continuous,
direct routes for cycling in towns and cities,
physically separated from pedestrians and
volume motor traffic along with more low traffic
neighbourhoods and school streets.

158

16. Cycling and walking can help us tackle
some of the most challenging issues we face
as a society, not just climate change, but
improving air quality, health and wellbeing,
addressing inequalities, and tackling
congestion and noise pollution on our roads.
Increased levels of active travel can improve
everyday life for us all.

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy
18. We will deliver a world class cycling and
walking network in England by 2040. This will
include comprehensive cycling and walking
networks in all large towns and cities, with
measures to enable cycling and walking, such
as cycle training for all children and adults
that want it. We will enable behaviour change
through targeted personal incentives, such
as GP prescribing of active travel, existing tax
reliefs, and rewards programmes.

Railways

Buses and coaches

23. We will deliver a net zero rail network by
2050, with sustained carbon reductions in
rail along the way. Our ambition is to remove
all diesel-only trains (passenger and freight)
from the network by 2040. We will deploy new
low-carbon technologies on the network such
as hydrogen and battery trains, where they
make operational and economic sense. We
will incentivise the early take up of low carbon
traction by the rail freight industry.

19. We will deliver the National Bus Strategy’s
vision of a transformed bus industry and
a green bus revolution. We will make
buses more frequent, more reliable, more
comprehensive, easier to understand and
use, better co-ordinated and cheaper – to
dramatically increase passenger numbers and
reduce congestion and carbon emissions.

24. We will build extra capacity on our rail
network to meet growing passenger and
freight demand and support significant shifts
from road and air to rail. This includes new
high-speed lines, reopening lines closed under
the Beeching cuts and significant improvement
to regional city public transport networks with
the aim of making them as good as London’s.

20. We will support delivery of 4,000 new
zero emission buses, either battery electric or
hydrogen, and the infrastructure needed to
support them. This will be the single largest
investment ever made in zero emission buses,
representing the replacement of nearly 12% of
England’s local operator bus fleet.

25. We are working with industry to
modernise fares ticketing and retail and
encourage a shift to rail and cleaner and
greener transport journeys. Great British
Railways set out a transformation in how
people will pay for their journeys, to encourage
a shift to rail and cleaner, greener journeys.
Greater provision of walking and cycling
routes to and from stations, and supporting
infrastructure, will be introduced to support
healthier greener journeys. Great British
Railways will encourage more rail freight by
providing the right conditions for industry
growth, with better coordination, modern
contracts, and new safeguards.

21. We will deliver the first All-Electric Bus
City. This will demonstrate what can be
achieved when there is a real commitment
to move all buses in a place to electric zero
emission. Coventry has now been announced
as the UK’s first all-electric bus city, with £50
million to fund up to 300 electric buses and
charging infrastructure.
22. We are consulting on a phase out date for
the sale of new non-zero emission buses and
coaches. We have already begun consulting
on an appropriate date to end the sale of
new non-zero emission buses and on the
appropriate supporting policy and regulatory
framework. We will also consult on a phase
out date for the sale or purchase of new nonzero emission coaches.

159

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Cars, vans, motorcycles,
and scooters
26. We will end the sale of new petrol and
diesel cars and vans by 2030. From 2035 all
new cars and vans must be fully zero emission
at the tailpipe. Between 2030 and 2035, new
cars and vans will only be able to be sold if
they offer significant zero emission capability.
27. To provide certainty to consumers,
energy providers, the chargepoint industry,
vehicle manufacturers and supply chains
during this transition, we will introduce a zero
emission vehicle mandate setting targets
requiring a percentage of manufacturers’ new
car and van sales to be zero emission each
year from 2024.
28. We will continue to regulate the tailpipe
CO2 emissions of new non-zero emission cars
and vans to limit their emissions until 100% of
new sales are zero emission. This framework
could subsequently be applied to all forms of
new road vehicles sold in the UK.
29. Between 2030 and 2035, new cars and
vans will only be able to be sold if they offer
significant zero emission capability and we will
provide further detail on the outcome of our
recent consultation on this shortly. We will then
publish a further consultation in early 2022 on:
•

The design of the ZEV mandate (including
uptake trajectories) and CO2 emissions
regulation (as a backstop to ensure
standards in the remainder of the fleet are
maintained); and

•

How and when targets will be set
and enforced.

160

30. We are building a globally competitive UK
zero emission vehicle supply chain to ensure
our automotive sector is at the forefront of
the transition to net zero. Since 2020, the
government has been actively supporting
the transformation of the automotive
supply chain to electrification through the
Automotive Transformation Fund (ATF). We
are allocating a further £350 million of our
up to £1 billion ATF commitment to support
the electrification of UK vehicles and their
supply chains. We will also continue to invest
in R&D through the Advanced Propulsion
Centre (APC) competition to ensure the UK
remains at the forefront of the development
and industrialisation of zero emission vehicle
technologies.
31. We will consult this year on a phase out
date of 2035, or earlier if a faster transition
appears feasible, for the sale of new non-zero
emission powered two and three wheelers
(and other L category vehicles).
32. We will lead by example with 25% of the
government car fleet ultra low emission by
December 2022 and all the government car
and van fleet zero emission by 2027.
33. We will ensure the UK’s charging
infrastructure network meets the demands of
its users. We have already announced £1.3
billion of investment to accelerate the rollout
of charging infrastructure on motorways,
on streets, in homes and workplaces. The
Government has committed an additional
£620 million of funding to support the
transition to electric vehicles. Further details
will be published in due course. Later this year,
we will publish an EV infrastructure strategy,
setting out our vision for infrastructure rollout,
and roles for the public and private sectors in
achieving it.

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy

Smart Charging
Amir is self-employed and uses a van for work. His work involves a lot
of journeys locally, totalling around 250-300 miles per week. He usually
plugs into charge every few evenings, with his vehicle fully charged by
the morning. He has a chargepoint installed on his driveway so he can
charge on his domestic energy tariff. The chargepoint is smart, which
means it shifts charging to off-peak times, which saves Amir money.
He has also signed up to a vehicle-to-grid scheme with his electricity
supplier. By keeping his van plugged in during the week when he
doesn’t need to use it, he’s able to sell energy back to the grid when
demand is high.
Maritime
34. We will plot a course to net zero for the
UK domestic maritime sector, with indicative
targets from 2030 and net zero as early as
is feasible. We will establish, after public
consultation in 2022, an ambitious ‘Course to
Zero’. Following consultation, we will establish
ambitious indicative targets and embed this
course in our Clean Maritime Plan.
35. We will consult on a potential phase-out
date for the sale of new non-zero emission
domestic vessels. Following the conclusion
of the current Clean Maritime Demonstration
Competition and the Course to Zero
consultation, we will consult in mid-2022 on
the potential for accelerated decarbonisation
through carefully designed, well signposted
measures to phase out the sale of new, nonzero emission domestic vessels.
36. We are assessing how economic
instruments could be used to accelerate the
decarbonisation of the domestic maritime
sector. Building on Maritime 2050, the Clean
Maritime Plan and our published research, we
will further investigate the use of economic
instruments to drive decarbonisation.

37. We will extend the Renewable Transport
Fuel Obligation to the maritime sector.
Following consultation earlier this year, we
will make renewable fuels of non-biological
origin used in shipping eligible for incentives
under the RTFO.
38. This year we will be consulting on the
appropriate steps to support and, if needed,
mandate the uptake of shore power in the
UK. We will consult in winter 2021 on how
government can support wider deployment
of shore power, including potential regulatory
interventions, for both vessels and ports.
39. We are accelerating the development of
zero emission technology and infrastructure
in the UK. We have launched the £20 million
Clean Maritime Demonstration Competition
(CMDC) to fund feasibility studies and
technology trials. We will engage with industry
to explore establishing a UK Shipping Office
for Reducing Emissions (UK-SHORE) in
cooperation with UKRI and Innovative UK.
UK-SHORE aims to transform the UK into a
global leader in the design and manufacturing
of clean maritime technology.

161

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Aviation
40. Earlier this year we consulted on our Jet
Zero Strategy, which will set out the steps we
will take to reach net zero aviation emissions
by 2050. We have also consulted on a
target for UK domestic aviation to reach net
zero by 2040.

43. We are currently reviewing the responses
to the SAF mandate consultation. Ahead
of a second consultation in 2022, we will
continue to engage with industry to ensure our
policy can support the delivery of any future
mandate ambitions.

Freight and logistics

41. We are supporting the development of
new and zero carbon UK aircraft technology
through the Aerospace Technology Institute
(ATI) programme and fund zero emission
flight infrastructure R&D at UK airports. As
part of the Jet Zero ambition, the Aerospace
Technology Institute (ATI) provides R&D
funding, matched by industry, to support the
design and development of new aerospace
technologies, with particular focus on
zero carbon technologies, that are most
likely to grow the UK’s share in the global
market. We are also investing £3 million in
2021/22 through the Zero Emission Flight
Infrastructure competition to accelerate R&D
into infrastructure requirements at airports
and airfields to handle new forms of zero
emission aircraft.

44. We recently consulted on phase out
dates for the sale of all new non-zero emission
HGVs - that is, on ending the sale of new nonzero emission HGVs by 2035, for vehicles 26
tonnes and under, and 2040, for vehicles over
26 tonnes, with the government’s response
due to be published in due course.

42. We will accelerate the commercialisation
of UK sustainable aviation fuels (SAF). Our
ambition is to enable delivery of 10% SAF by
2030 and we will be supporting UK industry
with a £180 million funding to support the
development of SAF plants. This builds on
our recently launched £15 million Green
Fuels, Green Skies competition. We will also
establish a SAF clearing house, the first of its
kind announced in Europe, to enable the UK
to certify new fuels.

162

45. We will support and encourage modal
shift of freight from road to more sustainable
alternatives, such as rail, cargo bike and
inland waterways. This will be supported by a
package of policies including:
•

Investing in the capacity and capability of
the rail network for freight, including infill
electrification schemes;

•

The Mode Shift Revenue Support and
Waterborne Freight Grant Schemes;

•

Introducing a rail freight growth target; and

•

‘Last mile’ measures to support more
sustainable freight in urban areas.

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy

Delivering decarbonisation
through places

Maximising the benefits of
sustainable low carbon fuels

46. We will support transport decarbonisation
by investing more than £12 billion in local
transport systems over the current Parliament.
We will deliver this through existing funding
streams where decarbonisation sits alongside
other core government objectives.

49. As announced in July 2021, and subject
to parliamentary approval, the RTFO main
obligation will increase from 9.6% in 2021 to
14.6% in 2032. This is estimated to achieve
additional carbon savings of up to 20.8
MtCO2e over this period. The ‘development
fuels’ sub-target, which incentivises specific
fuels of strategic importance, is already set
to increase from 0.5% in 2021 to 2.8% by
2032, and by 2023 we will review whether
there is scope to be more ambitious. We also
committed to additional measures to promote
the uptake of low carbon fuels in the freight,
maritime and aviation sectors and we will work
with stakeholders to develop a longer-term
low carbon fuel strategy for the deployment
of low carbon fuels across different transport
modes to 2050.

47. We are driving decarbonisation and
transport improvements at a local level by
making quantifiable carbon reductions a
fundamental part of local transport planning
and funding. Local Transport Plans (LTPs) –
statutory requirements that set out holistic
place-based strategies for improving
transport networks and proposed projects for
investment – will need to set out how local
areas will deliver ambitious carbon reductions
in line with carbon budgets and net zero.
48. We will embed transport decarbonisation
principles in spatial planning and across
transport policy making. Last year, the
government set out proposals for a new and
improved planning system, central to our
most important national challenges, including
combating climate change and supporting
sustainable growth. The National Model
Design Code, published in July this year,
guides local planning authorities on measures
they can include within their own design
codes to create environmentally responsive
and sustainable places. The National Model
Design Code provides tools and guidance
for local planning authorities to help ensure
developments respond to the impacts of
climate change, are energy efficient, embed
circular economy principles and reduce
carbon emissions.

Hydrogen in a decarbonised
transport system
50. We expanded the RTFO to incentivise
the use of renewable hydrogen in maritime
and rail in 2018. As set out clearly in the
recent Hydrogen Strategy and Transport
Decarbonisation Plan, hydrogen is likely to
play a significant role in transport applications,
particularly where energy density requirements
or refuelling times make it the most suitable
low carbon energy source. Our dedicated
hydrogen R&D funding and support is
focussed on heavier applications, such as
rail, maritime, aviation and heavy road freight,
where hydrogen offers in-use advantages
and the largest global market potential. The
government remains technology neutral
and acknowledges that there will be other
transport applications where hydrogen may
be well suited, including the potential for
hydrogen to be utilised within combustion
engines, where it can be shown to produce
zero harmful emissions at the tailpipe.

163

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
51. We are investing £3 million in 2021 to
establish the UK’s first multi-modal hydrogen
transport hub in Tees Valley. The funding
is kick-starting activity across the region,
supporting collaborative R&D pilot projects
and pop-up trials that demonstrate hydrogen
technology solutions across transport modes
and forge new industry and academic
partnerships.

Future transport – more choice,
better efficiency
52. We will take action to increase average
road vehicle occupancy by 2030. Increasing
car occupancy from 1.55 to 1.7 could save
nearly 3 Mt of carbon a year by 2030. We are
building our evidence base to understand the
barriers and potential policies to increase the
uptake of shared mobility and will work with
industry and local authorities to understand
where further action can be taken.

164

53. We will reduce the barriers to data
sharing across the transport sector. Better
data can provide new policy and operational
insights, drive new products and services
and ‘nudge’ people towards lower emission
journeys. We recently published a new annual
statistical release, drawing together various
data sources on transport’s environmental
impact. Data consumers can use these data,
without restrictions on use or disclosure,
for journey planning applications, products
and services enabling users to plan green
end‑to‑end journeys.

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy

Working together across the UK
Examples of policy action by the Scottish Government, Welsh Government
and Northern Ireland Executive
UK Government is working across all
levels of government and with Devolved
Administrations to ensure consistent action to
reduce emissions across the transport sector,
and across the UK.

Wales
The Welsh Government’s vision is that by 2025
all users of electric cars and vans are confident
that they can access electric vehicle charging
infrastructure when and where they need it.73
Its Electric Vehicle Charging Strategy identified
a need for 30,000-55,000 fast chargers and
up to 4,000 rapid chargers by 2030. The
forthcoming EV Charging Action Plan will
include further details on the specific support
for the roll out of a comprehensive network.

Scotland
The transport measures in the updated 2018
Climate Change Plan contain action across all
modes. The Scottish Government will phase
out the need for new petrol and diesel cars
and vans by 2030, and will work with public
bodies to lead the way to do this by 2025.
It will also work with the freight industry to
remove the need for new petrol and diesel
heavy vehicles by 2035, supported by its
work with Scottish Enterprise to establish a
Zero Emission Heavy Duty Vehicle programme
to remove the majority of fossil fuel buses in
public transport by 2023.

The commitment set out in the Climate
Change Plan to reduce car kilometres by 20%
by 2030 demonstrates the level of ambition
in meeting Scotland’s statutory targets. To
encourage modal shift to public transport
the Scottish Government is investing over
£500 million in bus priority infrastructure and
extending nationwide free bus travel to all
young people resident in Scotland under 22
years old from 31 January 2022. On active
travel, the Scottish Government will support
transformational active travel projects with
over £500 million of investment over 5 years
and has committed to ensuring that at least
£320 million or 10% of all the transport capital
budget is spent on supporting walking, cycling
and wheeling by 2024-25.
On public transport, Scotland’s rail services
will be decarbonised by 2035, and the
Scottish Government is working with its
Bus Decarbonisation Taskforce to create
a pathway to zero emission buses. This is
supported by its long-term investment of over
£500 million in bus priority infrastructure.

165

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Northern Ireland
In Northern Ireland, £74 million has been
invested in the purchase of zero and low
emission vehicles (hydrogen and electric)
and associated infrastructure in the public
transport sector. A £20 million Blue/Green
infrastructure investment fund was launched in
2020/21 and has continued in 2021/22, which
has supported a range of initiatives including
active travel schemes across Northern Ireland.
An Executive Energy Strategy is currently
being developed which will include measures
focusing on informing transport choices and
behaviours, and establishing a sustainable
transport hierarchy that will support changes in
how we travel, reduce the distances travelled
in private vehicles, and decarbonise transport.

166

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy

3vi. Natural Resources,
Waste & F-Gases
Harnessing nature for net zero
Our Key Commitments
•

75% of farmers in England will be engaged in low carbon practices by 2030, rising
to 85% by 2035. Government is introducing farming schemes, including the new
environmental land management schemes, which will provide a powerful vehicle for
achieving net zero, and goals of the 25 Year Environment Plan.

•

Increase investment in industry-led research and development into solutions to
help deliver net zero in agriculture and horticulture, including through the Farming
Innovation Programme.

•

Treble woodland creation rates by the end of this Parliament, reflecting England’s
contribution to meeting the UK’s overall target of increasing planting rates to 30,000
hectares per year by the end of this Parliament and maintain new planting at least
at this level from 2025 onwards. We will explore a long-term statutory tree target in
England within the public consultation on Environment Bill targets.

•

We will boost the existing £640 million Nature for Climate Fund with a further
£124 million of new money, ensuring total spend of more than £750 million by
2025 on peat restoration, woodland creation and management. This will enable
more opportunities for farmers and landowners to support net zero through land
use change.

•

Restore at least 35,000 hectares of peatlands in Englad by 2025, through the
Nature for Climate Fund. Restore approximately 280,000 hectares of peat
in England by 2050, including via funding from the new environmental land
management schemes.

•

Mobilise private investment into tree planting, including through the Woodland
Carbon Code, with the support of government’s Woodland Carbon Guarantee,
and into peat restoration through implementing a package of reforms to the
Peatland Code.

•

We will work with key stakeholders to develop a policy roadmap to increase the
use of timber in construction in England, and will create a cross-government and
industry working group tasked with identifying key actions to safely increase timber
use and reduce embodied carbon.

167

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
•

To support our commitment to explore options for the near elimination of
biodegradable municipal waste to landfill from 2028, we are bringing forward £295
million of capital funding which will allow local authorities in England to prepare to
implement free separate food waste collections for all households from 2025.

•

Complete a review of the F-gas Regulation and assess whether we can go further
than the current requirements and international commitments, including by looking
at what additional reductions in F-gas use can be made to help the UK meet net
zero by 2050.

•

Through the Environment Bill we will legislate for Local Nature Recovery Strategies –
a new system of spatial strategies that will map proposals for improving or creating
habitat for nature and wider environmental benefits, helping to deliver net zero
objectives.

•

Biodiversity co-benefits and other environmental objectives are maximised alongside
decarbonisation.

Progress to date
1. This chapter covers natural resources
including agriculture, forestry, and other land
use (AFOLU), (inclusive of peatlands and soils),
as well as resources, waste, wastewater,
and fluorinated gases (F-gases). In 2019, net
UK greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from
these sectors, referred to as NRWF (natural
resources, waste, and F-gases), reflected
103 MtCO2e or 20% of the UK total, having
decreased by 45% between 1990 and 2019.74
2. In the Ten Point Plan, we committed to
protecting our natural environment. Since
then we have launched the floods investment
programme to better protect 336,000
properties from flooding. We also awarded
90 projects grants under round 2 of the
£80 million Green Recovery Challenge Fund
(GRCF). In total, the GRCF is set to plant
almost over 1 million trees.

Agriculture, forestry, and other land
use (AFOLU)
3. AFOLU were responsible for 63 MtCO2e
(12%) of UK net GHG emissions in 2019,
having risen slightly in the last 2 years but
reduced by 24% since 1990.
168

4. Emissions from agriculture, mainly
stemming from livestock, agricultural soils,
and farm machinery, added up to 55 MtCO2e
(11%) of UK emissions in 2019. Although
rising by 1% from 2018 to 2019, agricultural
emissions have fallen by 13% since 1990.
The Agriculture Transition Plan (2020) sets
out how we will move away from the EU’s
Common Agricultural Policy to use public
money to reward farmers and land managers
for delivering environmentally sustainable
outcomes in England.75
5. Forestry and woodlands currently act
as carbon sinks and, in 2019, captured
about 4% of our emissions.76 Since 2010,
123,000 hectares of new woodland has been
planted across the UK, an area equivalent to
Bedfordshire. The England Tree Action Plan
(2021) committed to increasing tree planting
rates from 13,410 hectares across the UK
in 2020/21, to 30,000 hectares each year
by the end of this Parliament. The plan is
supported by £500 million of the Nature for
Climate Fund. In 2020-21 we funded new
partnerships with Northumberland County
Council, Trees 4 Cornwall, and England’s
network of ten Community Forests. Two new

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy
community forests were launched, Plymouth
and South Devon in June 2021 and NorthEast, in July 2021.
6. Although peatlands are the UK’s largest
terrestrial carbon store, in a degraded
condition they represent a net source of
emissions. In 2019, peatlands emitted 4%
of UK net GHG emissions, having become
degraded due to drainage for agricultural use,
overgrazing and burning. We have rewetted
around 100,000 hectares of peatland across
the UK and set out further plans for peatland
restoration and responsible management in
the England Peat Action Plan (May 2021).

Resources, waste, and F-gases
7. Waste management emissions consist
of waste disposed to landfill sites, waste
incineration without energy recovery, and
the treatment of wastewater. In 2019, waste
management accounted for 25 MtCO2e
(5%) of UK emissions, a significant decrease
of 71% since 1990, largely driven by a

reduction in biodegradable waste to landfill.
The Resources and Waste Strategy (RWS),
(2018) set out how we will transition to a
more circular economy, and included key
reforms to enable us to manage our waste
more efficiently, reduce the amount of waste
we create as a society, and ensure we use
resources more efficiently.77
8. F-gases (GHGs which can be used
in systems such as heat pumps and air
conditioning units) accounted for 15 MtCO2e
(3%) of UK emissions in 2019, with 93%
of these coming from hydrofluorocarbons
(HFCs). F-gas emissions have fallen by 10%
since 1990.78 In 2017, the UK was one of
the first countries to commit to cutting HFC
consumption by 85% by 2036, ratifying
the Kigali Amendment to the UN Montreal
Protocol.79 We have cut HFC consumption
even faster than that, reducing levels placed
on the market by 55% since 2015, through
quota limits.80

Net zero transition and economic opportunities
Our 2050 vision and how we
get there
9. A systemic transformation across the
UK economy, including NRWF sectors, is
required to achieve net zero by 2050. While
we will significantly reduce emissions across
the NRWF sectors, some residual emissions
from agriculture, waste, and F-gases will
remain. These will need to be compensated
for by both nature-based and engineered
greenhouse gas removals (GGRs) as a last
resort. On our journey to net zero, we will
maximise opportunities to adapt to climate
change and the extreme weather it brings,
and to maximise the co-benefits for other
environmental objectives.

10. By 2050, emissions associated with
the NRWF sectors could need to drop by
67-75% compared to 2019, down to 26-34
MtCO2e. In the interim, to meet our NDC and
Carbon Budget 6 targets, they are expected
to fall by 30‑40% by 2030 and 39-51% by
2035, compared to 2019 levels. These figures
are based on the indicative NWRF sectoral
pathway to help us reach net zero and interim
targets. Our potential pathway also indicates
residual emissions in AFOLU sectors could
need to fall by 17-30% by 2030 and 24‑40%
by 2035, relative to 2019 levels; waste and
F-gas emissions could need to fall by 50‑57%
by 2030 and by 62-69% by 2035, relative to
2019 levels.

169

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
11. We are working closely with Devolved
Administrations to deliver this ambition. This
includes frequent engagement at Ministerial
and official levels through existing and new

forums, and allows us to think practically
about how we deliver across the UK. We will
also consider the interdependencies between
land use sectors and other goals.

Figure 23: Indicative agriculture, forestry and other land use emissions
pathway to 2037
90
80

Emissions (MtCO2e)

70

Pre-NZS policies

60
50
NZS delivery
pathway

40
30

2050
Range

20
10
0
1990

1995

Source: BEIS analysis

170

2000

2005

2010

2015

2020

2025

2030

2035

2040

2045

2050

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy

Figure 24 Indicative waste and F-gas emissions pathway to 2037
120

Emissions (MtCO2e)

100
80
60
40
Pre-NZS policies

20

2050
Range

NZS delivery
pathway

0
1990

1995

2000

2005

2010

2015

2020

2025

2030

2035

2040

2045

2050

Source: BEIS analysis

Agriculture, forestry, and other land
use (AFOLU)
12. By 2050, we will have a resilient and
prosperous countryside, where farmers and
land managers are supported to reduce
emissions and deliver a range of environmental
outcomes. 75% of farmers in England will be
engaged in low carbon practices by 2030,
rising to 85% by 2035. Emissions mitigation
in agriculture is complex and diverse, with no
silver bullets. It is difficult to establish a single
metric to track progress, but government
monitors engagement with low carbon farming
practices through our Farm Practice Survey.
We will continue to improve this metric in
future years to address what we consider to
be key limitations in the current approach.

13. We will support farmers to adopt low
carbon farming practices, and increase the
carbon stored on their farms, helping to
improve business productivity and profitability
gains. Schemes that support environmental
land management will help drive this change
and will also help compensate for residual
emissions that are harder to reduce, such as
from livestock. The Farming Investment Fund
will offer funding for equipment, technology,
and infrastructure that improves farm
productivity and benefits the environment.
We are also providing funding to help farmers
produce healthier animals, reduce GHG
emissions and enhance welfare through
the Animal Health and Welfare Pathway.
Additionally, Defra will develop a Farming for
Net Zero resource, providing advice to farmers
on good practice techniques to understand,
manage and abate GHG emissions.
171

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
14. We also recognise the importance of
other policy levers with potential climate
benefits, for example Environmental Permitting
for dairy and intensive beef herds which is
planned under the Clean Air Strategy. There
is also an important role for emerging markets
in nature-based solutions. For example, the
Woodland Carbon Code, which incorporates
robust standards and accreditation processes.
We will seek to establish a robust market
framework, with arrangements to ensure
additionality, transparency, and traceability
of carbon credits, so that regulators and the
public can be confident that carbon savings
are verified and also guaranteed against
future issues such as forest fires or disease.
Additionally, we continue to consider the
impact that climate change will have on the
suitability of our land for different uses, such
as the impact of hotter, drier summers and
warmer, wetter winters on agriculture, habitat
creation and restoration, and forestry.
15. Biomass will also be an important
component of our pathway to net zero. It
is likely that the UK will be producing more
domestic perennial energy crops (such as
miscanthus and short rotation coppice)
and short rotation forestry than today, but
the exact role is yet to be determined. The
Biomass Strategy, due in 2022, will look to
address this. The sustainability, and wider
environmental impact of growing and using
biomass, including on air quality, will be key
factors in establishing its role.

172

Resources and waste, and F-gases
16. By 2050, we will have met the 25 Year
Environment Plan (25YEP) commitments
to eliminate all avoidable waste, including
plastic, and to double resource productivity.81
A circular economy will be part of everyday
life: reusing, repairing, and remanufacturing
goods will be standard practice. Goods will
be designed to last for longer and be more
efficient. At end of life, the vast majority of
products will be sent for recycling, with food,
garden, and dry materials collected separately
and used as lower carbon inputs for new
products. Producer responsibility schemes
will be embedded across the economy. Any
non-recyclable residual waste will be treated to
enable the processing of waste into valuable
outputs, such as energy. Where possible,
these processes would include carbon capture
and storage. (See the Power chapter for more
on energy from waste.) Only where no such
treatment is possible may landfill be permitted.
17. By 2050, current F-gas use will have been
predominantly replaced by alternative gases
or technologies. HFC importers, equipment
manufacturers and servicing technicians will
have taken steps to reduce their use in favour
of alternatives, not only in line with the current
phasedown, but also with further measures
implemented following the F-gas Regulation
review and future international changes.

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy

Other sectors
18. Protecting, restoring, and sustainably
managing other natural resources such as
soils or blue carbon habitats like saltmarsh
and seagrass, can provide benefits for
biodiversity and climate adaptation, as well

as for carbon sequestration. We do not
currently have the required data to include
these habitats in the UK GHG Inventory or to
accurately quantify their potential contribution
to net zero but are doing further work to close
these evidence gaps.

Reducing emissions while balancing other climate and
environmental objectives
While reducing emissions, we must also adapt to the inevitable changes in our climate,
ensuring that policies supporting net zero are resilient to current and future climate risks,
and preventing locking in future vulnerabilities or maladaptation. The second National
Adaptation Programme sets out how we are addressing, and will address, climate risks
between 2018 and 2023 and further detail on adaptation is included in the Climate Science
Annex of this strategy.
Delivering net zero creates opportunities to benefit other environmental objectives too. For
example, climate change and biodiversity loss are closely related, and policies to tackle
climate change can help to improve biodiversity. Likewise, net zero policies can support
further environmental goals, such as water quality, natural beauty, and the delivery of
the 25YEP. For example, we will ensure afforestation across England and that the right
species of tree is planted in the right place, benefitting flood management, soil health
and biodiversity, while also sequestering carbon. In some cases, however, we know it will
be important to manage potential misalignments: for example, ammonia emissions from
digestate, a by-product from the process of anaerobic digestion, can negatively impact
human health and cause biodiversity loss. We are working to mitigate ammonia emissions
through the Green Gas Support Scheme, which will require participants to take additional
steps to mitigate ammonia emissions, and by researching technologies that can help
reduce the negative environmental impacts of digestate. The relationship between net zero
and wider environmental objectives, including air quality, is set out in more detail in the
Technical Annex.

173

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
The UK has a limited amount of land and delivering net zero will require changes to the way
this land is used, for example, for afforestation, biomass production, and peat restoration.
Opportunities for land to be used for multiple purposes, such as agroforestry will help
to make sure land use for decarbonisation purposes is balanced with other demands,
such as housing development and food production. These changes are likely to have
varying effects on wider environmental outcomes and may completely alter the character
of some landscapes and rural livelihoods (see section below). Land use change must be
designed in a systemic, geographically targeted way with appropriate local governance
and delivery structures which consider the complex range of interacting social, economic,
and demographic factors. To support this, government is developing a Net Zero Systems
Tool which aims to allow key decision makers to gain new insights and understanding,
by highlighting dependencies and trade-offs within the land use system, as well as
by demonstrating the knock-on effects of proposed policies. In addition, through the
Environment Bill, the Government is introducing Local Nature Recovery Strategies (LNRS),
a spatial planning tool for nature, allowing local government and communities to identify
priorities and opportunities for nature recovery and nature-based solutions across England.
The Bill includes a specific duty on all public authorities to “have regard” to relevant LNRSs
and the spatial information they provide will support the development of local plans and
other land use change incentives. Delivery of priorities and opportunities identified in LNRS
will be supported by a range of delivery mechanisms including our environmental land
management schemes, and in particular, the Local Nature Recovery scheme. By 2028,
Defra’s current plans are for total spend to be evenly split between farm-level, locally
tailored, and landscape-scale investment within ELM

Seizing new opportunities
19. Reducing emissions will create growth
and employment opportunities across
NRWF sectors, and it is important that these
opportunities are evenly felt and realised by
all. Achieving net zero will require innovation
from businesses and landowners, investment
from government and the private sector, and
changes in our choices as consumers. We
want to create domestic and international
demand for our low carbon, high welfare and
world-renowned produce, whilst supporting
international markets for sustainably
produced commodities.
20. To achieve the level of emissions
reductions in the NRWF sector indicated by
our delivery pathway to 2037, we will need
additional public and private investment
of approximately £30 billion. Given the
importance of R&D to deliver our pathway, we
are committing to spend £75 million on net
zero related R&D across the NRWF sectors
over the next three years.
174

21. Decarbonising the NRWF sectors will
regenerate communities and open up new
employment opportunities right around the
UK. For example, an increase in afforestation
across England could support up to 1,900
jobs in 2024 and up to 2,000 jobs in 2030.
By investing in rural infrastructure and skills
development we will seek to ensure rural
communities and rural businesses, including
the most disadvantaged, benefit from net
zero. There will be significant opportunities
for upskilling, reskilling, and starting new
career paths, alongside expanding current
sectors. For example, nature-based solutions
create entry-level opportunities for people
just starting out, as well as requiring specialist
skills such as hydrology, ecology and forest
management. By delivering long-term policy
certainty, we will unlock the private investment
necessary to deliver these green jobs.

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy
22. Innovation will also be vital to delivering
net zero and maximising benefits for the UK. In
agriculture, farmers will be able to adopt new
emission saving technologies, produce lower
carbon foods and steward the land in new
ways, such as through vertical farming. This
will allow them to diversify income streams and
produce high quality, low carbon produce for
domestic and international markets, boosting
the rural economy. Investment in agricultural
innovation, through schemes like the Farming
Innovation Programme, will drive development
of new precision technologies, explore the
potential of robotics and artificial intelligence,
and take advantage of developments in
breeding technologies, including the potential
of gene editing. This can also make our
agricultural sector more resilient to the impacts
of climate change and safeguard our food
security. We also know other technological
solutions, such as those to reduce emissions
from non-road mobile machinery in the
agricultural sector require further development.
Cross government work is required to develop
non-road mobile machinery policies to support
the deployment of technological solutions
and required infrastructure in specific sectors,
including industry, transport, and buildings.
Relevant government departments will work
together to ensure a coherent approach (see
the Industry chapter). A significant market
share for innovations such as alternative
proteins will take time to materialise, but will
align with consumer dietary trends, and the
UK already has a lively and growing domestic
market that could grow to become another
great British food export that competes
internationally. These and other novel methods
of food production could create significant
opportunities to further promote high quality
British food internationally.

23. Innovation is key to other NRWF
sectors too. Industry is responding to the
HFC phasedown by switching to alternative
gases and technologies in areas such as
refrigeration, air conditioning, and heat pumps,
and will continue to innovate in this area.
The UK Research and Innovation’s National
Interdisciplinary Circular Economy Research
programme is looking at how to transition to
a more circular economy. Producers will need
to move to more sustainable product design,
and consumers, with support from the public
and private sectors, will need to shift to more
sustainable product choices and towards
reusing, repairing, remanufacturing, and
recycling products.

Policies and proposals
Agriculture, forestry, and other land
use (AFOLU)
24. We have begun the Agricultural Transition
Period and have moved away from the
CAP. We are reducing and then stopping
untargeted Direct Payments in England and
moving to a system where public money
rewards farmers and land managers for
environmentally sustainable actions, including
reducing emissions and expanding the
carbon sequestration potential of our land.
We will introduce three environmental land
management schemes: the Sustainable
Farming Incentive (SFI), Local Nature Recovery
(LNR) and Landscape Recovery (LR). The SFI
will be open to all farmers and will incentivise
low carbon practices, for example, soil and
nutrient management. LNR will fund actions
that support local nature recovery and
deliver local environmental priorities. The LR
scheme will fund long-term land use change
projects such as large-scale tree planting,
and peatland restoration projects. Net zero
will be a key priority across the delivery of our
environmental land management schemes.

175

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
25. Take up of these schemes will be
voluntary and will require a shift in the
practices of landowners and farmers. We are
working to ensure the schemes encourage
participation, including through appropriate
payment rates, in line with the Payment
Principles.82 Participants will still be able
to benefit from private sector funding, for
delivering additional benefits. Advice and
guidance will also be provided to support
participants to adopt new practices. Tests
and trials for the schemes began in 2020.
The scheme will be rolled out in full by 2024.83
Government has committed to maintain
current levels of spending on the sector in
England, based on 2019 levels, until 2024/5,
amounting to an average of £2.4 billion a year.
26. We are also supporting the acceleration
of private investment in nature through
initiatives such as the Natural Environment
Investment Readiness Fund. These will test
new models and build pipelines of investable
nature projects by providing technical
assistance and capacity building support to
create opportunities for private investment.
Projects will capture the value of the carbon
and other benefits provided by natural assets
such as woodlands, peatlands wetlands
and river catchments. They will create multifunctional landscapes that deliver diverse
benefits, providing a return on investment and
improving our understanding of how to attract
private investment.
27. We will boost the existing £640 million
Nature for Climate Fund with a further
£124 million of new money, ensuring total
spend of more than £750 million by 2025
on peat restoration, woodland creation
and management. This will enable more
opportunities for farmers and landowners to
support net zero through land use change.

176

Agriculture
28. Government will support a range of
measures to decarbonise the agriculture
sector specifically, including by providing
further funding to support farmers to take
up low carbon practices and technologies.
We will introduce a targeted set of financial
incentives to improve animal health and
welfare and reduce emissions from animals,
including action to identify and eliminate
bovine viral diarrhoea, with pilots starting
in late 2022 or early 2023. The Farming
Investment Fund will provide further grants to
farmers, enabling them to invest in equipment,
technology and infrastructure that will improve
their profitability and benefit the environment.
The scheme will be launched in 2021.
From 2022, Government will also provide
grants for new slurry stores, equipment,
and other interventions. The primary goal
will be delivering reductions in nitrate and
ammonia pollutants from slurry, a key cause
of pollution on farms, but the grants will also
reduce methane emissions and protect and
restore habitats.
29. We will increase investment in
industry-led research and development into
productivity challenges, delivering net zero
and testing new technologies and methods.
The Farming Innovation Programme will
open for applications in October 2021 with
further competitions planned for 2022 and
beyond. These will bring together interested
farmers, scientists, and researchers to tackle
productivity and environmental challenges. We
will invest in supporting knowledge exchange
so more farmers and growers have access to
the latest findings from cutting-edge research
that they can apply on their farms.

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy
30. We will encourage and support increased
agroforestry (trees and agriculture coexisting
on the same land) through our environmental
land management schemes from the early
2020s, enabling agricultural land to sequester
emissions while delivering other environmental
benefits, such as air quality and biodiversity,
and providing alternative income streams for
farmers from trees.
31. Government is working, and will continue
to work, in partnership with the sector to
develop a new outcome-focused approach to
regulation and enforcement which supports
net zero. For example, ruminant livestock are
the leading cause of farm emissions, but feed
additives with methane inhibiting properties
have the potential to reduce emissions,
especially from housed cattle. Whilst this is an
emerging technology, government is actively
investigating the promising role these products
may have in delivering emissions savings in
the mid-term, including by assessing whether
regulation could ensure maximised take up of
such products.
32. We will also consider how best to reduce
and better target the use of manufactured
fertiliser, including exploring the potential of
regulation in this area. In addition, we are
considering whether we need new legislative
powers to improve soil management and
nutrient management. We will consider the
recommendations of the Nutrient Management
Expert Group, due to report in spring 2022,
on the optimal policy approaches to minimise
emissions from fertiliser use.

33. The Government’s upcoming Food
Strategy will support the delivery of net zero,
nature recovery, and biodiversity commitments
and will help to create a food system that
incentivises farmers to produce high quality,
high welfare food in the most sustainable way.
Government is exploring options to reduce
carbon emissions from food production,
support innovation in the food sector,
incentivise land use change to sequester more
carbon, and preserve natural resources.
34. Government is also committed to
exploring the monitoring, reporting, and
verification of emissions in the agriculture
sector. This will enable us to understand where
the greatest decarbonisation opportunities
could be across the sector, considering all
options. We will continue to review potential
carbon pricing strategies for land use sectors,
including the potential role for voluntary or
compliance carbon markets to support cost
effective decarbonisation for the sector.

Peat
35. The England Peat Action Plan (EPAP)
sets out the government’s long-term vision for
managing, protecting, and restoring peatlands
so that they provide a wide range of benefits
to wildlife, people and the planet.
36. Tackling the drivers of peatland
degradation is essential. The EPAP commits
to ending the horticultural use of peat in the
amateur sector by the end of this parliament
and a consultation will be launched on
potential legislative measures (e.g. a sales ban)
in 2021. Legislation to end managed burning
on protected blanket bog that is 40 cm deep
or more, unless covered by a license, has
already been laid, protecting 40% of England’s
blanket bog, and government is committed
to reviewing the economic and environmental
case for extending protections.

177

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
37. At least 35,000 ha of peatlands in England
will be restored, by 2025, via the Nature for
Climate Fund. From 2024, public funding
for peatland restoration will be available in
England through the new environmental
land management schemes. To further
support peatland restoration, government
is implementing a range of policies that will
mobilise private investment. The Natural
Environment Investment Readiness Fund has
been launched and a package of reforms
to the Peatland Code, including expanding
it to cover more peatland types, will be
implemented in 2022. We will aim to restore
approximately 280,000 ha of peatland in
England by 2050.
38. Degraded lowland peat is responsible
for 86% of England’s peatland emissions.
Full restoration may not always be desirable,
due to the lowlands’ agricultural value and
interactions with landscape scale water
level management regimes. Where it is not
possible to restore peatlands, we will support
new responsible management measures for
lowland peatlands.The Lowland Agriculture
Peat Taskforce will provide recommendations
in summer 2022 on how to improve the
condition of lowland farmed peatlands, both
to reduce emissions and support continued
profitable agriculture. From 2024, our Local
Nature Recovery scheme will provide a key
funding stream for wetter modes of farming,
including paludiculture. To prevent delay,
our Farming Innovation Programme will be
open to supporting applications for R&D in
paludiculture from the 20 October 2021,
with more competitions to follow in 2022
and beyond.

Forestry and woodlands
39. We will treble woodland creation rates by
the end of this Parliament, reflecting England’s
contribution to meeting the UK’s overall target
of increasing planting rates to 30,000 hectares
per year by the end of this Parliament, and
maintain new planting at least at this level from
2025 onwards. We will explore a long‑term
178

statutory tree target in England within the
public consultation on Environment Bill targets.
We intent to spend over £500 million of the
Nature for Climate Fund on funding woodland
creation and management in England until
2025, beyond which the new environmental
land management schemes will provide the
main source of public funding. Whilst this
rate of planting will lead to a relatively small
emission savings in the short-medium term,
it will play an increasingly important role as
time goes on, while also providing other
environmental benefits.
40. Private finance for tree planting and
management is being generated via the
Woodland Carbon Code with the support of
government’s Woodland Carbon Guarantee.
Government has also launched a new England
Woodland Creation Offer to fund woodland
creation in England and will establish new
Woodland Creation Partnerships in key areas,
bringing together government, NGOs, and the
private sector to develop bespoke offers to
encourage woodland creation.
41. The government will review guidance on
the tax treatment of trees and woodlands, to
provide greater clarity to landowners on how
new and existing trees on their land affect tax
liabilities. Further, government will regulate to
improve protections for existing woodlands
and increase the number of woodlands under
active management, improving resilience to
natural hazards.
42. Felled trees store carbon within them and
timber has the lowest embodied carbon of
any mainstream building materials. Guided
by market analysis, fire safety and structural
considerations, key opportunities for the
safe growth of timber use will be in low-rise
buildings using traditional and certain modern
methods of construction, and in a wide range
of commercial and non-residential settings.
We will promote the safe use of timber in
construction through several measures,
including by:

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy
Providing financial support to develop
innovative timber products through the
Forestry Innovation Fund;

Resources, waste and F-gases

•

Working with key construction
stakeholders, including the Green
Construction Board, Construction
Leadership Council, Home Builders
Federation, and Federation of Master
Builders to develop a policy roadmap on
use of timber;

•

Driving an increase in the use of certain
modern methods of construction, some
forms of which can encourage use of
sustainable materials such as timber;

•

Working with Homes England and delivery
partners to explore ways to increase timber
use in the delivery of housing programmes;

•

Increasing public demand for sustainably
sourced timber through procurement
policies; and

•

Encouraging research into barriers to
uptake of timber, including looking at
timber strength grades and the fire
resistance of engineered timber structures.

44. The Government’s Resources and Waste
Strategy (RWS) set out the overall ambition
and direction of travel for the waste sector.
It made a commitment to increase municipal
recycling rates to 65% and to ensure that
no more than 10% of municipal waste is
landfilled by 2035. Biodegradable waste
sent to landfill today, however, slowly breaks
down anaerobically, emitting methane for
many years afterwards. Faster action will
mean greater emissions savings. We will
therefore explore policies to work towards the
near elimination of biodegradable municipal
waste to landfill by 2028. To support this
commitment, we are bringing forward £295
million of capital funding which will allow local
authorities in England to prepare to implement
free separate food waste collections for all
households from 2025.

•

Biomass
43. Government will publish a Biomass
Strategy in 2022 which we will set out
the results of a review of the amount of
sustainable biomass available to the UK
(including domestically grown perennial
energy crops and short-rotation forestry),
and how this resource could be best utilised
across the economy to help achieve net
zero. The strategy will set out the role which
Bioenergy with Carbon Capture & Storage
(BECCS) can play in reducing carbon
emissions and how the technology could
be deployed. It will also consider where and
how we can improve our existing biomass
sustainability standards (already some of
the world’s most stringent) and examine the
relationship between biomass, including how it
is used, and our wider environmental targets,
including air quality.

Resources and waste

45. To work towards these goals, we are
delivering the reforms announced in the
RWS. Consistent collections of household
and business waste will be introduced via the
Environment Bill. The powers will allow us to
require local authorities to separately collect
a core set of materials for recycling, including
paper and card, glass, metal, plastic, food
waste and household garden waste. This will
divert significant volumes of biodegradable
waste from landfill and provide a high volume
of emissions savings. A deposit return scheme
for drinks containers and extended producer
responsibility for packaging, placing the net
costs of disposing of packaging on producers,
will also be introduced. These two measures
will increase the volume of materials being
recycled and decrease our consumption
of virgin materials, thereby reducing the
amount of waste sent to landfill and reducing
emissions from other sectors.

179

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
46. Complementing these measures, the
introduction of the plastic packaging tax
from April 2022 will encourage greater use
of recycled plastic in plastic packaging,
instead of new (virgin) plastic. The tax will
be charged at £200 per tonne and be paid
by manufacturers and importers of plastic
packaging that contains less than 30%
recycled plastic. It is estimated that this will
lead to an increase in the use of recycled
plastic by 40% in 2022-23, equal to carbon
savings of nearly 200,000 tonnes of CO2
emissions. The government will also review
aspects of the Landfill Tax in England and
Northern Ireland in due course, as announced
in Spring 2021. This will ensure the tax
continues to support the government’s
ambitious environmental objectives.
47. Government is committed to moving
to a more circular economy. This means
keeping built assets, products, and materials
in use for longer, including through repair
and reuse, and making greater use of
secondary materials, thus reducing waste
arising. Recycling and material substitution,
especially of carbon intensive materials
such as steel, aluminium, and cement, are
also an important part of our approach.
The draft Waste Prevention Programme
for England (WPP) (recently consulted on)
sets out the overall approach to improving
resource efficiency across key sectors
and announced government’s intention to
consult on introducing extended producer
responsibility in other areas, including textiles.
The Industrial Decarbonisation Strategy,
meanwhile, outlines our high-level ambition for
resource efficiency measures across industry.
At least one legislative target in the area of
resource efficiency and waste reduction will
be set under the Environment Bill. For further
information on our plans for resource efficient
manufacturing see the Industry chapter.

180

48. Government is also committed to
eliminating food waste to landfill and delivering
the UN Sustainable Development Goal 12.3 to
halve food waste by 2030. The Environment
Bill will require all local authorities in England
to separately collect household food waste,
preventing it from being sent to landfill. This
will create carbon savings and support the
shift to a circular economy, as food waste is
instead turned into biogas and digestate (a
soil improver) through anaerobic digestion.
In addition, government will continue to work
with Waste and Resources Action Programme
(WRAP) and industry, and to support the
Courtauld 2030 voluntary agreement with
food and drink businesses, the Food Waste
Reduction Roadmap, and the Target Measure
Act approach, as well as campaigns in the
public and private sector to reduce food
waste, including the annual Food Waste
Action Week.
49. Wastewater emissions will decrease
due to improved treatment processes and
expected data improvements. Water company
research and investment into reducing
process emissions from wastewater treatment
plants will result in reductions in municipal
process emissions via alternative treatment
processes such as anaerobic treatment,
membrane activated biofilm reactors,
alternative ammonia removal processes and
nature‑based solutions. Improvements in the
way companies, and government, report on
industrial emissions, and the way they are
calculated, are also likely to result in reductions
to the values on record.

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy

F-gases
50. Government will continue to impose
the requirements of the F-gas Regulation,
which covers England, Wales and Scotland.
The regulation requires a range of measures
to reduce emissions, including controls on
gas placed on the market, product bans,
leak checks and mandatory certification for
handlers of F-gases. These actions will help
us to meet the Kigali Amendment target of
reducing HFC consumption by 85% by 2036,
as well as the F-gas Regulation’s target of a
79% reduction by 2030.

51. A review of the F-gas Regulation has
commenced and is due to complete no
later than 2022. This will be used to assess
whether we can go further than the current
requirements and international commitments,
including by looking at what additional
reductions in F-gas use can be made to help
the UK meet net zero by 2050.

181

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Working together across the UK
Examples of policy action by the Scottish Government, Welsh Government
and Northern Ireland Executive
UK Government is working across all
levels of government and with Devolved
Administrations to ensure consistent action
to reduce emissions across the Natural
Resources, Waste and F-Gases sectors, and
across the UK.

Wales
In November 2020, the Welsh Government
published its National Peatland Action
Programme to target peatland bodies most in
need of restoration, with the aim of delivering
600-800 ha of restoration per year.84 It will
also safeguard those in good and recovering
condition. Activity will be delivered by Natural
Resources Wales and partners across a range
of land uses on both private and public land.
When the Senedd first sat in 1999, Wales
recycled less than 5% of its municipal waste.
In 2020, Wales highest ever recycling rate
of over 65% put it third in the world, with
403,000 tonnes of CO2 avoided in 2019/20.
This success is due to a truly collective
effort by local authorities, communities and
households, while the Welsh Government has
set targets and funded infrastructure. Food
waste is collected from every household and
recycling centres are evolving into modern
eco-parks where businesses and enterprises
capture the value in materials and keep
resources in use.

182

Scotland
The Scottish Government has set ambitious
targets to restore 250,000 ha of peatland by
2030 and for 18,000 ha of new woodlands
to be created annually by 2024/25, with
woodland cover increased from around
19% to 21% of the total area of Scotland
by 2032. Scottish Forestry and Forestry
and Land Scotland will work with investors,
carbon buyers, landowners, and market
intermediaries to increase private investment
in new woodlands to increase the woodland
carbon market by at least 50% by 2025.
I n its recent Programme for Government, the
Scottish Government allocated an additional
£150 million for forestry and woodland
creation: Scottish Forestry will use £100
million of this to support new tree planting;
and Forestry and Land Scotland will use
£30 million to expand Scotland’s national
forests and land, and £20 million to invest in
modernising nursery facilities to increase tree
production.
A new Scottish Agriculture Bill will be brought
forward in 2023 to replace the EU Common
Agricultural Policy. Co-development and
co‑design with rural partners will be central
to the development of future support
structures and delivery. The Agriculture Reform
Implementation Oversight Board (ARIOB) will
be asked to incorporate recommendations
from farmer-led groups, into the work
implementing policy reform. These groups
were established to develop proposals to
cut emissions across agriculture, support
sustainable and high quality food production,
and design a new support system. A
preliminary package of funded measures will
be agreed COP26, and the ARIOB will also
consider responses to the public consultation
launched in August on the same themes.

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy

Northern Ireland
The Forests for our Future Programme aims
to plant 18 million trees by 2030 to create
9,000 ha of new woodland. The programme
will improve the resilience of Northern
Ireland’s forests and woodlands and increase
their contribution to a sustainable, healthy
environment; increase the contribution of
forests and woodlands to Northern Ireland’s
sustainable and inclusive economic growth;
and increase the use of Northern Ireland’s
forest resources to enable more people
to improve their health, wellbeing, and
life chances.
Legislative provisions to help to limit emissions
from F-gases (which have a high greenhouse
warming potential) and ozone depleting
substances have also been brought into
operation in Northern Ireland.

183

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

3vii. Greenhouse Gas Removals
Balancing residual emissions to achieve net zero
Our Key Commitments
•

Set the ambition of deploying at least 5 MtCO2/year of engineered removals by
2030, in line with CCC85 and National Infrastructure Commission assessments.86

•

Deliver £100 million innovation funding for Direct Air Carbon Capture and Storage
(DACCS) and other GGRs.

•

Develop markets and incentives for investment in greenhouse gas removal
methods, by consulting on our preferred business models to incentivise early
investment in GGRs, in 2022.

•

Working in partnership with the devolved administrations, we will aim to launch a call
for evidence in the coming months exploring the role of the UK ETS as a potential
long-term market for GGRs, as part of our upcoming consultation on the UK ETS.

•

Explore options for regulatory oversight to provide robust monitoring, reporting and
verification (MRV) of GGRs, following the recommendations of the BEIS-led MRV
Task & Finish Group involving experts from industry and academia.

•

Seek an amendment to the Climate Change Act to enable engineered removals to
contribute to UK carbon budgets.

Progress to date
1. The primary method of achieving net zero
is to take ambitious decarbonisation measures
across society. However, we must also
acknowledge that sectors such as industry,
agriculture and aviation will be difficult to
decarbonise completely by 2050. Greenhouse
gas removals (GGR) are therefore essential to
compensate for the residual emissions arising

184

from the most difficult activities to reduce or
eliminate from within polluting sectors. This
approach is supported by the Climate Change
Committee,87 the Energy Systems Catapult,88
the National Infrastructure Commission and
the National Grid ESO (the GB electricity
system operator).89

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy
2. GGR is the name given to a group of
methods that actively remove greenhouse
gases, predominantly CO2, from the
atmosphere, also commonly referred to as
Carbon Dioxide Removal (CDR) methods and
Negative Emission Technologies (NETs). The
range of GGR approaches fall broadly into two
categories:
•

Nature-based approaches: such
as afforestation, and soil carbon
sequestration.

•

Engineering-based approaches: such as
Direct Air Carbon Capture and Storage
(DACCS), Bioenergy with Carbon
Capture and Storage (BECCS), wood
in construction, biochar, and enhanced
weathering (EW).

3. Following the sector classification
adopted by the CCC and in this Strategy, this
chapter focuses on engineered removals.
Nature‑based solutions, such as afforestation,
are discussed in the Natural Resources, Waste
and F-gases chapter.
4. The 2017 Clean Growth Strategy was
the first time the UK government formally
addressed the need to deploy GGR methods.
Since then, we have:
•

Committed up to £100 million funding to
research and develop nascent GGR;

•

Published a call for evidence on GGR in
December 2020; and

•

Commissioned 4 studies to further our
evidence base on the potential for GGR
deployment in the UK and understanding
of possible policy incentives.

185

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Figure 25: Non-exhaustive illustration of the current portfolio of GGRs.90

Technology
category

Photosynthesis

Tree planting

Soil carbon
sequestration
(SCS)

Biochar
(BC)

Afforestation &
Woodland

Agricultural
practices

Livestock practices

Bioenergy with
carbon capture &
storage (BECCS)

Direct air
capture
(DACCS)

Crop and forest residues

Suspended
amines

Dedicated crops

Hydroxides

Enhanced weathering
& Ocean
alkalinisation (EW)
Silicate
rocks

Agricultural
land

Dedicated crops (marginal)

ATMOSPHERE

Earth system

Implementation
options

Agro-forestry

Chemistry

LAND

SEA

Storage medium

BECCS and DACCS
Above ground
biomass

Soil

Minerals

Marine sediment,
calcifier and
bicarbonate ions

100s of meters
below the surface
Geological
Reservoirs

186

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy
5. In December 2020, BEIS and HM Treasury
jointly launched a Call for Evidence on GGRs,
which invited views on the role of GGRs in
reaching net zero and potential mechanisms

which government could consider to enable
their deployment. A Summary of Responses
to the Call for Evidence has been published
alongside this Strategy.

Net zero transition and opportunities for the sector
Our 2050 vision and how
we get there
6. We are clear that the purpose of
greenhouse gas removals is to balance the
residual emissions from sectors that are
unlikely to achieve full decarbonisation by
2050, whilst not substituting for ambitious
mitigation to achieve net zero. GGRs must not
be pursued as a substitute for decisive action
across the economy to reduce emissions,
often referred to as mitigation deterrence.91
7. There is also a need to ensure that
GGRs result in a permanent net reduction in
atmospheric carbon. This is a complex task
which, at least in the near-term, may require
case-by-case scrutiny of the carbon intensity
of GGR supply chains and long-term indirect
emissions of GGR projects. Developing a

robust approach to the Monitoring, Reporting
and Verification (MRV) of negative emissions is
essential to the deployment of GGRs at scale.
Future markets in which negative emissions
are traded, whether voluntary or otherwise, will
require careful regulation to ensure that capital
is being invested into permanent, verifiable
carbon removal.
8. Evidence around scale-up potential of
engineered removal solutions in the UK is
rapidly evolving, alongside innovation in the
sector. This evidence92,93 suggests that the
next decade will be critical and several GGR
solutions, such as Direct Air Capture, will have
to be developed or scaled-up significantly
during the late 2020s and early 2030s to
contribute effectively to later carbon budgets
and our net zero target, as well as to build our
evidence and experience in the sector.

187

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Figure 28: Indicative greenhouse gas removal (negative) emissions
pathway to 2037
0

1990

1995

2000

2005

2010

2015

2020

2025

2030

2035

2040

2045

2050

Pre-NZS policies

Emissions (MtCO2e)

-20
NZS delivery
pathway

-40

-60

-80

2050
Range

-100
Source: BEIS analysis

9. Both nature-based and engineered
removal methods will be necessary. For
engineered removals, a portfolio approach,
supporting innovation, demonstration,
and commercialisation of a wide range of
removal solutions in the 2020s, is needed
to ensure GGRs can contribute effectively
to meet our NDC and CB6 targets. The
government’s current suite of innovation
programmes for DACCS and other GGRs will
help ensure we continually target efficiency
improvements, cost reductions and novel
GGR technologies to inform our approach
over the coming decades.

188

10. Based on the current evidence base and
projects in the pipeline, our analysis indicates
that engineered removals would be expected
to deploy from 0 MtCO2 today to at least
5 MtCO2 by 2030 and to around 23 MtCO2
by 2035, with higher and lower deployment
possible depending on sector-specific and
wider economy developments.

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy
11. By 2030 we envisage significant
deployment of mature BECCS technologies
and commercial scale deployment of DACCS.
BECCS technologies will include retrofit
applications in the power and industry sectors.
BECCS applications in the power sector could
be deployed by the late 2020s, and potentially
achieve ambitious contributions to our NDC
target by 2030. Engineered removals are likely
to be located within or near industrial clusters,
benefitting from access to CO2 transport and
storage infrastructure, essential to support
delivery of net-negative emissions.
12. By the early 2030s the portfolio of GGRs
deployed at scale will expand as technologies
mature and demand from end-use sectors
increases. Beyond the contribution of
power BECCS to the electricity grid,
production of hydrogen, biogas/biomethane
fuels with BECCS could also support the
decarbonisation of transport, industry and
potentially power and heat in buildings.

Industry may also benefit from BECCS
applications in sectors such as cement.
When applicable in these areas, BECCS
can represent a cleaner form of energy
production than fossil fuel counterparts,
whilst also bringing the additional benefit
of negative emissions. The early 2030s
could also see progress in deployment of
DACCS technologies, thanks to efforts in
demonstration and piloting during the 2020s
through the support of our Direct Air Capture
and other GGRs innovation competition.
13. By 2050, deployment of engineered
removals at large scale, between 75 and
81 MtCO2 per year, will be needed to help
compensate residual emissions. This is
expected to be equivalent to around 45-80%
of total emissions captured across the UK
economy and will see predominantly the scale
up of DACCS and BECCS with gasification
technologies.

189

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Greenhouse gas removals in the context
of the wider net zero system
There will be several complex interdependencies between GGR methods and the wider
net zero system. Progress towards decarbonisation in other sectors will affect the extent
to which GGR deployment will be required to hit our emissions targets. Conversely, GGRs
have resource requirements that will impact other sectors. For example, deployment of
engineered GGRs in the early years will likely be constrained by the availability of CO2
transport and storage injection capacity and any development of GGR business models
will need to consider interactions with Industrial Carbon Capture and hydrogen business
models, along with wider carbon pricing policy. We have committed to consider how the
UK Emissions Trading Scheme could be expanded in future to provide a long-term support
mechanism for GGRs.

Biomass availability and supply
Biomass policy is highly interdependent with GGR deployment. Sustainable biomass is
a unique renewable organic material, and the future availability of sustainable biomass
directly influences the scale GGRs such as BECCS and biochar can deploy to. Constraints
on demand for perennial energy crops and solid recovered fuels, related mostly to
technological and financial challenges, will need to be overcome via research and
innovation to see significant increase in the take up of these biomass feedstocks. The
upcoming Biomass Strategy (due to publish in 2022) will review the amount of sustainable
biomass available to the UK and set out a framework for how this resource can be best
utilised across the economy to help achieve our net zero target. The upcoming biomass
policy statement gives an early indication of this framework, setting out the principles and
policy aims for biomass up to 2050.
The Strategy will also assess the UK’s current sustainability standards, to see where and
how we can improve them even further. Any future BECCS project would be required to
meet stringent sustainability requirements for the production and use of biomass, as will be
set out in the Biomass Strategy.

190

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy

Using our land effectively
Land use change will be required to accommodate GGRs, either directly through nature
based GGRs such as afforestation or indirectly from increased production of woody
biomass, such as perennial energy crops or short rotation forestry, to use for BECCS or
other opportunities in the wider bioeconomy.
What is best grown, where, in what quantity, and for what purpose, determines the
feasibility of a GGR through land-use change. Feasibility therefore must consider, amongst
others: alternative land use, feasible technological options for production, the net impact on
GHG emissions, interactions with competing land demands for other strategic government
objectives such as food security, nature conservation and housing, as well as social
implications such as integration of GGRs into existing farm practice and environmental
co‑benefits/risks.
Further research is required into best practice for establishing GGRs in a productive and
biodiverse landscape, and what levers may be required to establish such measures on
land that is largely privately owned. Research projects through the UKRI SPF on GGRs
and NERC GGR Research Programme will start to address these evidence gaps. GGR
deployment will require alignment with HMGs schemes to reward environmental land
management for example: Sustainable Farming Incentive (SFI), Local Nature Recovery
(LNR) and Landscape Recovery Schemes. We will also need to consider interactions with
private sector demands, such as through the domestic voluntary carbon market.
Uncertain impacts from climate change such as impacts to national stocks of high‑grade
farmland also demands consideration of what is both feasible now and on the way to 2050.
Differences in spatial and temporal scales between removal technologies, such longer payback times for afforestation as opposed to short rotation forestry, create opportunities to
maximise carbon removals to 2050 through a mix of land based GGRs.

Managing environmental risks and benefits
There are significant opportunities for maximising environmental co-benefits through nature
based GGRs. For example, integrating perennial energy crops (e.g., short rotation coppice
(SRC)) into existing farm systems can increase the abundance and diversity of flora and
fauna at a field scale, though these benefits depend on factors such as historic cropping
patterns and spatial distribution. At a landscape scale, afforestation can deliver co-benefits
through natural flood management and urban cooling. However, benefits depend on
sustainable forest management and choosing the right location and species of tree in
the ecosystem.

191

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

We must ensure that GGR technologies do not create new environmental risks. For
instance, feedstock production for BECCS, biochar and wood in construction have
potentially significant land requirements which if mismanaged could pose risks to
biodiversity. The deployment of BECCS could also potentially impact local air quality and
we must ensure that regulation and abatement on emissions other than CO2 develop to
reflect this. It is also necessary to ensure resilience to the impact future climate change
might have on the feasibility to deliver GGRs and wider environment objectives.

CO2 Transport and Storage networks
By the early 2030s, CO2 transport and storage infrastructure availability could potentially
constrain GGR deployment, as the significant overall expansion of CCUS projects creates
competition for access to the network.

Seizing new opportunities
14. The UK is well placed to take a leading
role in GGR policy development and
deployment. We have world-leading academic
and industry expertise in relevant sectors, as
well as a rapidly developing carbon capture
usage and storage (CCUS) sector and access
to large volumes of quality geological CO2
storage. Enabling GGR deployment will not
only help us hit net zero but can support the
UK’s ability to export skills and expertise to
other nations with comparable ambitions for
the sector.
15. To achieve the level of negative emissions
indicated by our central delivery pathway to
2037 and keep us on track to deliver net zero,
we will need additional public and private
investment of around £20 billion. Scaling
up the GGR sector will also regenerate
communities and open up new employment
opportunities right around the UK.

192

16. It will be crucial to ensure that future GGR
policy maximises the economic and regional
development opportunities of developing
the low carbon economy in our industrial
heartlands. Economic benefits include creating
new, highly skilled jobs in our industrial
heartlands and safeguarding those existing
in adjacent sectors with the potential to be
adversely affected by the transition to net zero,
as well as supply chains.

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy

Policies & proposals
17. Government has a clear role to play
in responsibly deploying GGRs, and is
committing to an ambition of deploying at
least 5 MtCO2/year of engineered removals by
2030. To achieve this, we are taking ambitious
steps to enable commercial demonstration
and deployment of engineered GGRs such
as Direct Air Capture. We are addressing
their financial and regulatory barriers, whilst
also working to build the evidence base and
address continued uncertainty around how
GGRs can most effectively and sustainably
be deployed and verified. Our role will
change over time, as GGRs become more
established, and the sector matures.

Addressing financial barriers and
attracting investment
18. One of the fundamental barriers to GGR
deployment is the lack of an established
market or customer demand for engineered
removals. GGR technologies are associated
with high capital and operational costs,
making private investment unattractive in the
absence of a stable revenue stream for the
provision of negative emissions.
19. The government’s vision is to establish
a liquid market for carbon removals, in
which polluters have a strong policy or
financial incentive to invest in GGRs to
compensate for their remaining emissions.
The UK Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS)
is a possible market‑based solution for
stimulating investment by GGRs – moving
us towards a single, integrated compliance
market for carbon, with negative emissions
supporting liquidity as the ETS allowance cap
falls over time.

20. GGR credits could function within an ETS
market through, for instance, allowing polluting
sectors to meet their obligations through the
procurement of negative emissions alongside
conventional abatement options. In the Energy
White Paper, the government committed to
exploring how the UK ETS could incentivise
the deployment of GGR technologies. We
aim to work with our Devolved Administration
colleagues to launch a call for evidence in
the coming months on the role the UK ETS
could have as a potential long-term market
for engineered or nature-based GGRs. This
may explore possible eligibility criteria for
participation in the UK ETS, different types
of GGR market design, and timings for when
GGRs could be added to the market.
21. We recognise that a market for GGRs will
take time to establish and a phased approach
is likely to be necessary. In the short-term,
there may be a role for government in
providing bespoke support for initial projects
to de-risk investment decisions and provide
revenue certainty for technology developers.
Yet we also recognise the potential for early
support instruments to integrate with marketbased approaches, such as combining
contract mechanisms with inclusion of GGRs
in the UK ETS.

193

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
22. To advance our ambition to stimulate
the GGRs sector, we will consult on business
models for engineered GGRs in Spring
2022. This will set out details of our preferred
mechanisms to incentivise early investment
and enable commercial demonstration of a
range of GGR technologies from the midto-late 2020s. The consultation will consider
how GGR incentives interact with policies and
business models currently under development
for CCUS, hydrogen production, sustainable
aviation fuels and other relevant sectors, along
with wider carbon pricing policy. It will also
consider how near-term policy incentives can
most effectively leverage private investment
and enable a transition towards a market-led
framework as the sector matures.
23. Our proposals will be informed by a
study currently being conducted for BEIS by
Element Energy, as well as a recent study
on commercial frameworks for first-of-a-kind
Power BECCS projects which is published
alongside this document.
24. Whilst seeking to capitalise on the
economic benefits of GGR development
in the UK, we are also mindful of potential
disruption to existing markets and the effects
on consumers and businesses. The cost
of support for GGRs is likely to be shared
between the public and private sector. We will
seek to develop an appropriate balance of risk
allocation over the short, medium, and long
term. Potential policy frameworks to enable
developing GGR solutions will require careful
consideration to guard against unintended
effects. We will ensure that support for
GGRs does not distort the development
and commercialisation of decarbonisation
technologies in other sectors.

194

Innovation
25. The majority of GGR techniques are at a
pre-commercial stage and require innovation
and demonstration support to be ready for
commercial deployment. To address this GGR
technologies were included as one of ten
innovation priority areas announced in the Ten
Point Plan for a green industrial revolution.94
Together with UKRI, we are investing £100
million in the research, development, and
demonstration of greenhouse gas removals
across multiple programmes. This includes the
DAC and other GGR innovation competition
which will support the construction of pilot
plants for a range of promising technologies
to help them achieve commercial realisation.95
The programme’s pilot projects could remove
between 100 and 1,000 tonnes of CO2e per
year in 2025 and have the potential to scale
up to millions of tonnes by the 2030s.
26. Through the government’s Strategic
Priorities Fund, UK Research and Innovation
(UKRI) will invest £31.5 million in five land
based GGR demonstrator projects and a
central hub. The hub will lead on coordination
across the programme, as well as conducting
cross-cutting research on the environmental,
economic, social, ethical and governance
implications of GGR approaches.
27. The Biomass Feedstocks Innovation
Programme aims to increase the production
of sustainable domestic biomass by funding
innovative ideas that barriers production. The
sustainable, increased supply of biomass for
bioenergy conversion is a critical factor for the
success of BECCS.

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy
28. We are also publishing the outputs of
two BEIS commissioned research projects
designed to further our understanding and
evidence base on GGR methods and their
deployment. An updated assessment of
greenhouse gas removal methods and their
potential deployment in the UK provides a
comprehensive and up-to-date assessment
of lifecycle costs, TRL and deployment
potential to 2050.

31. Alongside this document we have
published a report summarising the work of
the group, including proposed principles to
guide our MRV approach, initial suggestions
for how MRV protocols could operate, and
the future work required to advance the
development of an MRV policy for negative
emissions. The government will carefully
consider the Group’s advice as we take
forward future work in this area.

Monitoring, reporting and
verification of GGRs

32. Accounting for emissions associated
with international supply chains presents a
challenge for GGR carbon accounting, and we
will engage with our international counterparts
to ensure best practice is achieved.
Accounting for possible re-emissions, e.g.,
of CO2 captured internationally but stored
in the UK may be a particular challenge. We
commit to collaborating with international
partners to ensure alignment on any future
MRV framework.

29. Once atmospheric carbon has been
captured, the length of time it remains
captured becomes crucial in verifying the
effectiveness of a GGR process. This applies
to both nature based and engineered solutions
and is often referred to as the ‘permanence’
or ‘durability’ of GGRs. Establishing robust
Monitoring, Reporting and Verification (MRV)
protocols is highly complex, particularly for
some nature-based solutions.
30. In 2021, we established a GGR MRV
Task and Finish Group, comprised of experts
across government, industry, academia, and
regulatory services. The role of the group
was to provide advice and guidance on the
development of a MRV policy approach for
GGRs. A recommendation made by the group
is the need for an independent audit function
to be responsible for a monitoring, reporting
and verification regime. This would ensure that
the amount and permanence of removals are
quantified, robustly and transparently, which
will be essential to developing and supporting
a market for GGRs.

Legal and regulatory
33. Currently the Climate Change Act 2008
only recognises removals from Land Use,
Land Use Change and Forestry (LULUCF)
as counting towards our carbon budgets, a
definition which does not allow engineered
removals and some nature-based solutions
to contribute. We propose to bring forward
legislative amendments to address this.
34. An MRV regime will be required to ensure
that the amount and permanence of removals
are quantified, robustly and transparently, with
tolerable uncertainty. We will explore options
for establishing a regulatory function to provide
this oversight, taking into consideration the
advice of the MRV Task and Finish Group.

195

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Working together across the UK
Example of policy action by Scottish Government
UK Government is working across all
levels of government and with Devolved
Administrations to ensure consistent
action on Greenhouse Gas Removals, and
across the UK.

Scotland
Storegga and Carbon Engineering have
announced a partnership to develop
commercial Direct Air Capture (DAC) projects
in the UK, potentially contributing to the
removal of millions of tonnes of CO2 each
year. One location being considered for
their first proposed plant will sequester up
to 1 mtpa, connected via pipeline to the
Acorn Carbon Capture and Storage project
at St Fergus. The proposed DAC facility
would deliver permanent CO2 removal by
capturing CO2 from the air then safely and
permanently storing it deep below the seabed
in an offshore geological storage site. The
offshore Acorn CO2 storage site is aiming to
be operational by the mid-2020s and the first
DAC project could be operational within two
years of the store opening.

196

The Scottish Government’s Climate Change
Plan committed to a detailed feasibility study
of opportunities for developing negative
emission technologies (NETs) in Scotland. This
will identify specific sites and applications of
NETs, including developing work to support
policy on Direct Air Capture and its role in
our future energy system. The launch of a
£180 million Emerging Energy Technologies
Fund to support Hydrogen, CCS, and NETs
projects has also been announced.

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy

Endnotes
1

BEIS analysis (2021), ‘Final UK greenhouse gas emission national statistics: 1990 to 2019’,
https://www.gov.uk/government/statistics/final-uk-greenhouse-gas-emissions-nationalstatistics-1990-to-2019

2

‘Final UK greenhouse gas emission national statistics: 1990 to 2019’, https://www.gov.uk/
government/statistics/final-uk-greenhouse-gas-emissions-national-statistics-1990-to-2019

3

BEIS (2021) ‘Early phase out of unabated coal generation in Great Britain’ - https://www.gov.
uk/government/consultations/early-phase-out-of-unabated-coal-generation-in-great-britain

4

BEIS (2020), ‘Energy White Paper: Powering our Net Zero Future’, https://www.gov.uk/
government/publications/energy-white-paper-powering-our-net-zero-future

5

BEIS analysis based on 2019 data from BEIS (2021), ‘Digest of UK Energy Statistics’,
https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/digest-of-uk-energy-statistics-dukes#2021

6

BEIS (2021) ‘Decarbonisation readiness: call for evidence on the expansion of the 2009
Carbon Capture Readiness requirements’, https://www.gov.uk/government/consultations/
decarbonisation-readiness-call-for-evidence-on-the-expansion-of-the-2009-carbon-capturereadiness-requirements

7

CCC (2021) ‘Independent Assessment of UK Climate Risk June 2021’ – https://www.theccc.
org.uk/publication/independent-assessment-of-uk-climate-risk/

8

National Grid ESO (2020), ‘Annex 2 Final Cost-benefit Analysis Report from Phase 1 outputs
of National Grid ESO’s Offshore Coordination Project’, https://www.nationalgrideso.com/
document/182936/download

9

BEIS (2021), ‘Smart Systems and Flexibility Plan 2021: Appendix I – Electricity system
flexibility modelling’ https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/
uploads/attachment_data/file/1003787/smart-systems-appendix-i-electricity-system-flexibilitymodelling.pdf

10

BEIS (2021), ‘Smart metering statistics, quarterly update June 2021’, https://www.gov.uk/
government/collections/smart-meters-statistics

11

BEIS (2021) ‘Proposals for a Future System Operator role’ – https://www.gov.uk/government/
consultations/proposals-for-a-future-system-operator-role

12

BEIS (2021) ‘Energy code reform: governance framework’ – https://www.gov.uk/government/
consultations/energy-code-reform-governance-framework

13

BEIS (2021) ‘Capacity Market 2021: call for evidence on early action to align with net zero’
– https://www.gov.uk/government/consultations/capacity-market-2021-call-for-evidence-onearly-action-to-align-with-net-zero

14

BEIS (2021) ‘Energy retail market strategy for the 2020s’ – https://www.gov.uk/government/
publications/energy-retail-market-strategy-for-the-2020s

197

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
15

BEIS analysis based on 2019 data from BEIS (2021), ‘Digest of UK Energy Statistics’, https://
www.gov.uk/government/collections/digest-of-uk-energy-statistics-dukes#2021

16

BEIS (2021) ‘Longer Duration Energy Storage Demonstration (LODES) competition’ - https://
www.gov.uk/government/collections/longer-duration-energy-storage-demonstration-lodescompetition

17

Marginal emissions sources that fall outside these categories, but are accounted for in the
sector’s emissions, include methane leakage from closed coal mines, nuclear fuel production
and collieries.

18

For further detail on the current role of hydrogen, see chapter 1 of Analytical Annex to UK
Hydrogen Strategy. BEIS (2021), ‘Hydrogen analytical annex’, https://assets.publishing.service.
gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/1011499/Hydrogen_
Analytical_Annex.pdf

19

DfT (2020), ‘Renewable Fuel Statistics 2019 Final Report’, https://assets.publishing.service.
gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/932933/renewable-fuelstatistics-2019-final-report.pdf

20

These hydrogen production capacity ranges capture uncertainty in hydrogen demand
across all sectors that use hydrogen. BEIS (2021), ‘UK Hydrogen Strategy’, BEIS (2021),
‘Hydrogen analytical annex’, https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/
system/uploads/attachment_data/file/1011499/Hydrogen_Analytical_Annex.pdf; BEIS (2021),
‘Hydrogen analytical annex’, https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/
system/uploads/attachment_data/file/1011499/Hydrogen_Analytical_Annex.pdf.

21

Assuming plants operate at 95% load factor. In practice, plants may run at lower load factors,
requiring even higher hydrogen production capacity to be installed. These are estimates of
production capacity for two illustrative delivery pathways where demand is within the range
presented in the Hydrogen Strategy, and only capture uncertainty around hydrogen demand for
heat.

22

BEIS analysis on capital investment required to deliver production capacity.

23

BEIS analysis based on the Energy Innovation Needs Assessment (EINA) methodology with
updated domestic and global scenarios; figures consider the direct jobs linked to hydrogen
production, stationary CHP fuel cells and domestic distribution only. Vivid Economics (2019),
‘Hydrogen and fuel cells (EINA sub-theme)’, https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/
government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/845658/energy-innovation-needsassessment-hydrogen-fuel-cells.pdf

24

BEIS (2021), ‘Low Carbon Hydrogen Supply 2 Competition’, https://www.gov.uk/government/
publications/low-carbon-hydrogen-supply-2-competition

25

BEIS (2021), ‘Open Consultation: Design of a business model for low carbon hydrogen’,
https://www.gov.uk/government/consultations/design-of-a-business-model-for-low-carbonhydrogen

26

BEIS (2021), ‘Open Consultation: Design of a business model for low carbon hydrogen’,
https://www.gov.uk/government/consultations/designing-the-net-zero-hydrogen-fund

198

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy
27

BEIS (2021), ‘Open Consultation: Designing a UK low carbon hydrogen standard’, https://
www.gov.uk/government/consultations/designing-a-uk-low-carbon-hydrogen-standard

28

Welsh Government, Decarbonisation of Homes in Wales Advisory Group, https://gov.wales/
decarbonisation-homes-wales-advisory-group

29

ONS (2021), ‘Annual Business Survey’, https://www.ons.gov.uk/
businessindustryandtrade/business/businessservices/datasets/
uknonfinancialbusinesseconomyannualbusinesssurveysectionsas

30

ONS , ‘Gross Domestic Product (GDP), https://www.ons.gov.uk/economy/
grossdomesticproductgdp

31

ONS (2021), ‘Annual Business Survey’, https://www.ons.gov.uk/
businessindustryandtrade/business/businessservices/datasets/
uknonfinancialbusinesseconomyannualbusinesssurveysectionsas

32

UK in a Changing Europe (2020), ‘Manufacturing and Brexit’, https://ukandeu.ac.uk/researchpapers/manufacturing-and-brexit/

33

The definition of manufacturing and refining used above is similar but not identical to the
definition of industry used here, this is due to a different taxonomy being used (SIC codes and
IPCC codes respectively).

34

BEIS (2021), ‘Final UK greenhouse gas emission national statistics: 1990 to 2019’, https://
www.gov.uk/government/statistics/final-uk-greenhouse-gas-emissions-national-statistics1990-to-2019 Industry sector emissions include emissions from industrial processes,
manufacturing, and production, including fuel combustion and product uses in industrial
buildings, as well as emissions from refineries and construction machinery. This definition of
industry is broader than the definition used in the Industrial Decarbonisation Strategy and the
Hydrogen Strategy, which excluded the non-road mobile machinery and construction sectors.

35

Government analysis suggests up to 5,000 CCUS jobs could be supported in 2025 across
industry, power, and transport and storage network.

36

BEIS (2019), ‘Energy Innovation Needs Assessment’, https://www.gov.uk/government/
publications/energy-innovation-needs-assessments

37

National Atmospheric Emissions Inventory (2021), ‘Greenhouse Gas emissions reports’,
https://naei.beis.gov.uk/reports/reports?section_id=3

38

Employment figures sourced from ONS (2018), ‘Industry (2, 3 and 5 – digit SIC) –
Business Register and Employment Survey (BRES): Table 2’, https://www.ons.gov.uk/
employmentandlabourmarket/peopleinwork/employmentandemployeetypes/datasets/
industry235digitsicbusinessregisterandemploymentsurveybrestable2 Indirect jobs
estimates based on ONS (2019), ‘Type I UK employment multipliers and effects, reference
year 2015’, https://www.ons.gov.uk/economy/nationalaccounts/supplyandusetables/
adhocs/009746typeiukemploymentmultipliersandeffectsreferenceyear2015

39

National Atmospheric Emissions Inventory (2021), ‘Greenhouse Gas emissions reports’,
https://naei.beis.gov.uk/reports/reports?section_id=3

199

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
40

BEIS analysis (2021), ‘Net Zero Industry Pathway (N-ZIP) model’, https://www.theccc.org.uk/
wp-content/uploads/2020/12/N-ZIP-Model.xlsb

41

The figures were derived by the CCC based on research from 2018 (Scott, et al., 2018).
This research acknowledges that there are a range of possible scenarios that differ greatly in
resource efficiency savings. The CCC’s balanced pathway assume savings consistent with the
high scenario. Empirical evidence on the likelihood of these scenarios is limited. The balanced
pathway also includes estimated savings from industrial buildings, which are covered in the
Heat & Buildings chapter.

42

CCC (2020), ‘Sixth Carbon Budget’, https://www.theccc.org.uk/publication/sixth-carbonbudget/

43

Defined by the IDS as sites outside a 25km radius from the 6 main industrial clusters
(Grangemouth, Teesside, Humberside, Merseyside, South Wales and Southampton)

44

National Atmospheric Emissions Inventory, ‘Emissions from NAEI large point sources’, https://
naei.beis.gov.uk/data/map-large-source

45

Locations outside of the 6 main clusters where co-location of industrial units could yield
integrated solutions

46

ONS (2020), ‘Households projections for England’, Table 401, https://www.ons.gov.uk/
peoplepopulationandcommunity/populationandmigration/populationprojections/datasets/
householdprojectionsforengland ; BEIS (2020) ‘Non-domestic National Energy Efficiency DataFramework’ based on 2018 data, https://www.gov.uk/government/statistics/non-domesticnational-energy-efficiency-data-framework-nd-need-2020

47

Buildings Research Establishment (2020), ‘The Housing Stock of the United Kingdom’, https://
files.bregroup.com/bretrust/The-Housing-Stock-of-the-United-Kingdom_Report_BRE-Trust.pdf

48

This figure includes only emissions from direct energy use in buildings. Including emissions
from producing the energy used, the figure is 26%. BEIS Analysis, BEIS (2021), ‘Final UK
greenhouse gas emissions national statistics: 1990 to 2019’, https://www.gov.uk/government/
statistics/final-uk-greenhouse-gas-emissions-national-statistics-1990-to-2019; ONS (2021),
‘Energy Consumption in the UK’, https://www.gov.uk/government/statistics/energyconsumption-in-the-uk-2020. This figure includes not only emissions from direct energy use in
buildings but also emissions from producing the energy used.

49

Building Services Research and Information Association (BSRIA) (2020), Domestic boilers
market analysis – United Kingdom, 2020, https://www.bsria.com/uk/

50

These figures are on an indirect basis, i.e. include emissions from producing the energy used.
On a direct basis, the equivalent figures are 99% and 17%. BEIS Analysis, BEIS (2021),
‘Final UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics: 1990 to 2019’, https://www.gov.uk/
government/statistics/final-uk-greenhouse-gas-emissions-national-statistics-1990-to-2019;
ONS (2021), ‘Energy Consumption in the UK’, https://www.gov.uk/government/statistics/
energy-consumption-in-the-uk-2020.

51

ONS (2020), ‘Households projections for England’, https://www.ons.gov.uk/
peoplepopulationandcommunity/populationandmigration/populationprojections/datasets/
householdprojectionsforengland, Table 401

200

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy
52

MHCLG (2020), ‘English Housing Survey 2019 to 2020’, https://www.gov.uk/government/
statistics/english-housing-survey-2019-to-2020-headline-report, Annex table 2.2.

53

BEIS (2020), ‘Energy Consumption in the UK 2020’, https://www.gov.uk/government/statistics/
energy-consumption-in-the-uk-2020

54

MHCLG (2020), ‘English Housing Survey 2019 to 2020’, https://www.gov.uk/government/
statistics/english-housing-survey-2019-to-2020-headline-report, Annex table 2.8

55

MHCLG (2020), ‘English Housing Survey 2019 to 2020’, https://www.gov.uk/government/
statistics/english-housing-survey-2019-to-2020-headline-report

56

MHCLG (2020), ‘English Housing Survey 2019 to 2020’, https://www.gov.uk/government/
statistics/english-housing-survey-2019-to-2020-headline-report, Annex table 2.8

57

‘Fabric first’ means installing measures that upgrade the building fabric (e.g. walls/lofts) before
making changes to the heating system.

58

BEIS (2020), ‘Non-domestic National Energy Efficiency Data-Framework’, https://www.gov.uk/
government/statistics/non-domestic-national-energy-efficiency-data-framework-nd-need-2020

59

BEIS analysis, this figure excludes industrial buildings. BEIS (2020), ‘Final UK greenhouse gas
emissions national statistics: 1990 to 2018’, https://www.gov.uk/government/statistics/final-ukgreenhouse-gas-emissions-national-statistics-1990-to-2018, Table 19

60

BEIS (2016), ‘Building Energy Efficiency Survey‘, https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/
building-energy-efficiency-survey-bees

61

BEIS (2020), ‘Final 2018 UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics: 1990 to 2018’,
https://www.gov.uk/government/statistics/final-uk-greenhouse-gas-emissions-nationalstatistics-1990-to-2018

62

BEIS analysis based on the Energy Innovation Needs Assessment (Vivid Economics, 2019)

63

IEEG (2020) ‘Rebuilding for resilience - energy efficiency’s offer for a net zero compatible
stimulus and recovery’, https://www.theeeig.co.uk/news/starstarnew-reportstarstar-rebuildingfor-resilience-energy-efficiency-s-offer-for-a-net-zero-compatible-stimulus-and-recovery/.
Derived from Jan Rosenow and others (2018). Assumes EPC band C by 2030 with cost
savings at 2020 prices.

64

BEIS (2021), ‘Sustainable warmth: protecting vulnerable households in England’, https://www.
gov.uk/government/publications/sustainable-warmth-protecting-vulnerable-households-inengland

65

Curl and Kearns (2017) ‘Housing improvements, fuel payment difficulties and mental health in
deprived communities’, International Journal of Housing Policy, https://www.tandfonline.com/
doi/full/10.1080/14616718.2016.1248526.

66

University of Cambridge (2017), ‘Do House Prices and Rents in the Private Rented Sector
Reflect Energy Efficiency Levels’ https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/
system/uploads/attachment_data/file/910853/beis-cambridge-house-price-report.pdf

201

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
67

No or low-regrets’ means actions that are cost-effective now and will continue to prove
beneficial in future. For example, installing energy efficiency measures reduce consumer bills
now, while making buildings warmer and comfier, but have the added benefit of making future
installations of low carbon heating more cost effective.

68

BEIS (2021), ‘Opportunity areas for district heating networks in the UK: Second National
Comprehensive Assessment’, https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/opportunity-areasfor-district-heating-networks-in-the-uk-second-national-comprehensive-assessment

69

CITB (2021), ‘Building Skills for Net Zero’ https://www.citb.co.uk/media/kkpkwc42/building_
skills_net_zero_full_report.pdf

70

Decarbonisation of Homes in Wales Advisory Group, Welsh Government, https://gov.wales/
decarbonisation-homes-wales-advisory-group

71

International aviation and shipping emissions are not included in domestic transport as they are
reported separately.

72

International Aviation and Shipping emissions are not included in the UK’s 68% NDC target and
are included in carbon budgets from CB6.

73

Welsh Government (2021), ‘Electric vehicle charging strategy for Wales’, https://gov.wales/
electric-vehicle-charging-strategy-wales

74

BEIS analysis of 1990-2019 UK GHG emissions statistics. BEIS (2021), ‘Final UK greenhouse
gas emissions national statistics 1990 to 2019’, https://www.gov.uk/government/statistics/
final-uk-greenhouse-gas-emissions-national-statistics-1990-to-2019.

75

Defra (2020), ‘Agricultural Transition Plan 2021 to 2024’, https://www.gov.uk/government/
publications/agricultural-transition-plan-2021-to-2024

76

BEIS (2021), ‘Final UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 1990 to 2019’, https://
www.gov.uk/government/statistics/final-uk-greenhouse-gas-emissions-national-statistics1990-to-2019

77

Defra (2018), ‘Resources and waster strategy for England’, https://www.gov.uk/government/
statistics/final-uk-greenhouse-gas-emissions-national-statistics-1990-to-2019

78

BEIS (2021), ‘Final UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics’, https://www.gov.uk/
government/statistics/final-uk-greenhouse-gas-emissions-national-statistics-1990-to-2019

79

Defra (2017), ‘UK ratifies new agreement to tackle global warming’, https://www.gov.uk/
government/news/uk-ratifies-new-agreement-to-tackle-global-warming

80

The Ozone-Depleting Substances and Fluorinated Greenhouse Gases (Amendment
etc.) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019. Available at: https://www.legislation.gov.uk/
ukdsi/2019/9780111177136.

81

Defra (2018), ’25 Year Environment Plan’, https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/25year-environment-plan

202

Chapter 3 – Reducing Emissions across the Economy
82

Defra (2021), ‘Environmental land management schemes: payment principles’, https://www.
gov.uk/government/publications/environmental-land-management-schemes-paymentprinciples/environmental-land-management-schemes-payment-principles https://www.gov.
uk/government/publications/environmental-land-management-schemes-payment-principles/
environmental-land-management-schemes-payment-principles#:~:text=We%20will%20
set%20payment%20rates,a%20wide%20range%20of%20activities.

83

Defra (2021), ‘Sustainable Farming Incentive: Defra’s plans for piloting and launching the
scheme’, https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/sustainable-farming-incentive-schemepilot-launch-overview/sustainable-farming-incentive-defras-plans-for-piloting-and-launchingthe-scheme

84

Cynfoeth Naturiol Cymru Natural Resources Wales (2020), ‘National Peatland Action
Programme, 2020-2025’, https://cdn.cyfoethnaturiol.cymru/media/692545/national-peatlandsaction-programme.pdf

85

CCC (2021), ‘2021 Progress Report to Parliament’, https://www.theccc.org.uk/wp-content/
uploads/2021/06/Progress-in-reducing-emissions-2021-Report-to-Parliament.pdf

86

National Infrastructure Commission (2021), ‘Engineered greenhouse gas removals’, https://nic.
org.uk/app/uploads/NIC-July-2021-Engineered-Greenhouse-Gas-Removals-UPDATED.pdf

87

CCC (2020), ‘The Sixth Carbon Budget: Greenhouse gas removals’, https://www.theccc.org.
uk/wp-content/uploads/2020/12/Sector-summary-GHG-removals.pdf

88

Energy Systems Catapult (2020), ‘Innovating to Net Zero: UK Net Zero Report’, https://
es.catapult.org.uk/reports/innovating-to-net-zero/

89

National Grid (2020), ‘Future Energy Scenarios’, https://www.nationalgrideso.com/
document/173821/download

90

Minx et al (2018), ‘Environmental Research Letters’, IPO, Volume 13, Number 6

91

McLaren, D (2020), ‘Quantifying the potential scale of mitigation deterrence from greenhouse
has removal techniques’, Climatic Change, 162, 2411-2428, https://link.springer.com/
article/10.1007/s10584-020-02732-3

92

CCC (2020), ‘Sixth Carbon Budget’, https://www.theccc.org.uk/publication/sixth-carbonbudget/

93

BEIS (2021), ‘Greenhouse Gas Removal Methods Technology Assessment Report’, https://
www.gov.uk/government/publications/greenhouse-gas-removal-methods-technologyassessment-report

94

BEIS (2020), ‘The Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution’, https://www.gov.uk/
government/publications/the-ten-point-plan-for-a-green-industrial-revolution

95

BEIS (2021), ‘Projects selected for Phase 1 of the Direct air capture and greenhouse gas
removal programme’, https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/direct-air-capture-andother-greenhouse-gas-removal-technologies-competition/projects-selected-for-phase-1-ofthe-direct-air-capture-and-greenhouse-gas-removal-programme

203

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Supporting
the Transition
across the
Economy

4

Chapter

205

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

4i. Innovation for net zero
Harnessing UK strengths in R&D to reach net zero
Our Key Commitments
•

Increase government investment in R&D to £22 billion; increase total R&D
investment to 2.4% of GDP by 2027.

•

Publish the UK’s first Net Zero Research & Innovation Framework to set out
the key research and innovation challenges for the next 5-10 years; and a future
update to demonstrate how the government is delivering against these.

•

Deliver a Government programme of innovation to enable decarbonisation –
funding of at least £1.5bn during next spending review period expanding a portfolio
of cross government net zero innovation to fund BEIS-led programmes on power,
buildings and industry; DfT-led programmes across transport; and DEFRA led
programmes on natural resources, waste and F-gases, to target priorities aligned
with the Net Zero Research & Innovation Framework. This spending includes new
programmes set out in this Strategy such as £60m Heat Pump Ready programme.

•

Take a leadership role in Mission Innovation 2.0, a global initiative working to
accelerate clean energy innovation.1

206

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy

The challenge
1. Innovation is central to our approach
to delivering net zero. It will require a step
change in the rate of new technologies and
processes being developed and deployed into
the market and being adopted by businesses
and consumers. Continued investment in
cutting-edge research, development, and
demonstration, will be integral to achieving
this transformation and to the UK leading
the world in areas of existing and potential
competitive advantage. This investment

will also support businesses to grow and
solutions to be delivered at scale. Research,
development, and innovation are needed
to allow government, industry and business
to make decisions about what new
technologies and systems are promising.
To respond, government must enable the
efficient scaling of technologies, systems,
and business models to pull them through to
commercialisation for 2050 - and beyond.

Our goal
2. Our goal is for the UK to be a global leader
in the technologies, processes, services, and
business models needed to decarbonise our
economies, protect our environment, and
adapt to a changing climate. We will support
our world class innovators, entrepreneurs,
and financial institutions to develop and
deploy the key technologies of the future.
This will need to take place alongside other
cross-cutting policies, regulatory changes,
and commitments.
3. By supporting innovation, we could unlock
the potential for 300,000 jobs in exports and
domestic industry through new commercial
opportunities across low carbon sectors.

4. In the Prime Minister’s Ten Point Plan for
a Green Industrial Revolution,2 we restated
our commitment to raise total private and
public R&D investment to 2.4% of GDP by
2027 – enabling the next phase of green
innovation to help bring down the cost of the
net zero transition, nurture the development
of better products and business models,
and understand consumer choices. We
have started delivering on this with funding
announced for programmes across the
portfolio including renewables, energy
storage and flexibility, and hydrogen.3 This is
contributing to levelling up across all regions
of the UK whilst helping us to achieve our
net zero target.

207

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

The role of innovation
5. Innovation can significantly reduce costs
of the technologies, processes, and systems
needed to reach net zero. This goes beyond
just developing technologies. It also means
exploring new business models, approaches
to financing, the regulatory environment and
how consumers respond. Taking a whole
systems approach to innovation will be integral
to maintaining and developing the UK’s
global leadership in areas where we have, or
can develop, an international comparative
advantage or unique capability. We must
harness the UK’s international reputation to
attract inward investment and anchor existing
and emerging supply chains in the UK.
International collaboration will also be critical
to ensure that clean technologies become
cheaper and more readily available.
6. Innovation is a process which occurs
within an ecosystem of interacting actors,
technologies, and institutions. This requires
technologies, systems or processes to
progress through multiple phases of
development – from basic research, through
to commercialisation and diffusion. However,
innovation does not flow neatly in one direction
from one phase to the next; it is unpredictable
and serendipitous, involving constant cycles
of learning, testing, refining, and discovery. At
each phase of the innovation process there
are different market failures and barriers,
requiring distinct interventions. In the early
stages, there are often minimal incentives
for private actors to invest in innovation
and direct funding policies can help ‘push’
technologies towards demonstration and
early commercialisation. In the later stages,
the importance of attracting private finance
grows. Market incentive policies support
the development of markets and leverage
private finance to ‘pull’ technologies towards
deployment and diffusion.

208

7. The Prime Minister’s Ten Point Plan for
a Green Industrial Revolution, our Plan for
Growth and our new Innovation Strategy
bring together ambitious policies and
significant public investment to achieve net
zero, whilst seeking to mobilise substantial
private investment. These commitments will
position the UK to take advantage of export
opportunities in global markets presented by
these low carbon technologies and services.

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy

Case study: Glass Futures with Encirc pilot project
Through government’s 2016-21 Energy Innovation Programme, BEIS funded
Encirc (a glass container manufacturer) and Glass Futures (an industry
research and technology organisation) to lead a trial project based in Derrylin,
Northern Ireland to help determine the most effective approach to using low
carbon fuels in manufacturing in the glass sector.
This revolutionary project has proven that new bottles can be made from
100% recycled glass by using energy only from burning low carbon biofuels.
It is thought that this world-first initiative will set a global standard and make
way for an industry-wide reduction in carbon emissions in the glass sector.
When made from waste organic materials, biofuels are a renewable and much
more sustainable fuel source than those traditionally used by the glass sector
and can reduce the carbon footprint of each bottle by up to 90%. By using up
to 100% recycled glass to create new bottles, the trial has further minimised
the lifetime impact of these new products.

Supporting innovation for net zero
8. Achieving net zero will require profound
changes to the UK economy. It will mean
increasing our low carbon electricity supply,
making the transition to low carbon buildings,
decarbonising transport, building a hydrogen
economy, decarbonising industry, rolling-out
carbon capture and storage, transforming
the way land and marine spaces are used,
improving agricultural management, adopting
better waste management, and deploying
technologies to remove greenhouse gases
from the atmosphere. This should include
innovation to mitigate any environmental
impacts from new technologies on our
pathway to net zero.
9. In each of these sectors, known
technologies, business models, services and
approaches will need to be demonstrated
and then deployed at scale, while novel
technologies need R&D support now to
determine whether they can be affordable and
viable options in the longer-term. Underpinning

this will be research to understand consumer
acceptability and behaviour, and to create
economic incentives will also be required for
lasting change.
10. We’re publishing the Net Zero Research
& Innovation Framework which sets out the
critical net zero research and innovation
challenges across the UK that require
development over the next 5-10 years, and
presents timelines of short, medium, and
longer-term priorities. The framework will help
to align current and future government funding
around agreed priorities and to crowd-in effort
and investment from the private sector and
research communities by providing a clear
signal on our areas of focus.

209

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Government R&D Support
11. Government investment in research
drives progress on our goals, from the physics
underpinning battery technology to the
mathematics underlying climate modelling.
In November 2020, we committed to
increasing investment in core UK Research
and Innovation (UKRI) and National Academy
funded research by more than £1 billion by the
April 2024 (the 2023/24 Financial Year). UKRI
investment in research, innovation, and skills
creates the conditions for the UK to address
the complex and interrelated challenges of
achieving net zero by 2050.
12. Beyond early-stage research, investment
in new technologies is essential for bringing
them closer to commercialisation. We will
expand our cross government portfolio
of net zero innovation support, delivering
at least £1.5 billion during the next
spending review period. This will accelerate
the commercialisation of low carbon
technologies, systems, and business models
across the economy.
13. The Transport Decarbonisation Plan
committed to implementing a range of
innovation programmes to support the
decarbonisation of transport, with successful
projects for zero emission road freight trials
and hydrogen transport pilots recently
announced. Building on the success of our
£20 million zero emission road freight trials, we
will expand these to trial three zero emission
HGVs technologies at scale on UK roads to
determine their operational benefits, as well as
their infrastructure needs. The accompanying
Jet Zero: our strategy for net zero aviation
proposes a suite of policies to reduce
aviation emissions, including accelerating the
development of sustainable aviation fuels and
supporting the development of zero emission
flight. The Agricultural Transition Plan set out
the commitment to boost innovation and help
farmers and growers increase productivity,
sustainability, and resilience to a changing
climate. Given the importance of R&D to
210

deliver emissions savings across the natural
resources, waste and F-gases sectors, we
are also committing to spend £75 million on
net zero related R&D in these sectors over the
next three years.
14. We will prioritise innovations where
there is a strong case for UK Government
investment, while leveraging additional funding
from industry. It will also support the UK in
maintaining its leadership in the development
of technologies such as nuclear reactors
and fusion energy,4 which are expected to
complement renewable sources in the future.
With high levels of innovation alongside
ambitious policy support in technologies,
the UK’s low carbon sectors with the
largest potential could unlock £60 billion of
GVA in the UK.5
15. The Industrial Strategy Challenge
Fund (ISCF),6 delivered by UKRI and its
partners, drives UK growth and productivity
by directing innovation across sectors and
disciplines behind government’s strategic
priorities. ISCF has to date allocated £824
million to eight challenges aligned to the
2017 Industrial Strategy Clean Growth Grand
Challenge. Examples include the Transforming
Food Production Challenge; the Faraday
Battery Challenge; the Driving the Electric
Revolution Challenge.
16. The government’s Innovation Strategy
sets out our plans for a refreshed Innovation
Missions programme to build on UK
leadership in mission-driven innovation and
bring government together with industry,
civil society, and academia to respond
directly to major challenges confronting
the UK. As referenced in the International
chapter, Missions can play an important
role in stimulating and leveraging innovation
for tackling complex problems while
simultaneously promoting growth and
improved business outcomes and restoring
the UK’s place as a science superpower.

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy
17. It is a strategic focus of our National
Space Strategy to utilise space technology
in the fight against climate change. Satellites
provide an extraordinary insight into our
climate and environment and enable us
to understand and monitor how climate
change is impacting the Earth. We will
strive to remain at the forefront of Earth
Observation (EO) technology and know-how.
This supports our ambition to be a global
science and technology superpower and to
lead the world in tackling climate change and
biodiversity loss.

18. It is essential that we track crossgovernment activity and ensure that innovation
funding is strategically aligned to deliver the
government’s net zero ambition. This will be
supported by the Net Zero Innovation Board
(NZIB), chaired by the UK Government’s Chief
Scientific Advisor.
19. Alongside our policies that specifically
support our net zero objectives, there will
be continued significant public investment in
R&D to support all sectors. This includes the
creation of a new institution – the Advanced
Research and Invention Agency (ARIA) – to
fund high-risk, high-reward research. ARIA’s
leadership will have full scope to determine the
areas in which it will invest.

Case study: Hy4Heat Programme and Hydrogen Fuelled Appliances
The Hy4Heat programme was launched by BEIS in 2017 to explore the use
of hydrogen gas for heating by seeking to demonstrate technical feasibility
and safety. It aims to define quality and technical standards, and to develop
domestic and commercial hydrogen appliances. The programme, with up to
£25 million funded by BEIS, is supporting the innovation journey of a range
of domestic hydrogen appliances and meters including world-first hydrogenready boilers, cookers, and fires.
These hydrogen appliances and meters are being installed at a hydrogen
home facility, developed in partnership with Northern Gas Networks (NGN)
and Cadent. This will enable industry and members of the public to see how
these appliances work in a home setting. These properties will be the first UK
houses to demonstrate the use of hydrogen appliances in a real-world setting.

211

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Policy and regulatory frameworks
20. As set out in the Ten Point Plan and
Energy White Paper, we will continue
to develop a policy environment and
regulatory framework which incentivises
further deployment of new technologies,
services, and business models. The UK’s
Electricity Market Reform is an example
of how government can drive significant
cost reductions in low carbon technology.
Furthermore, while supporting the deployment
of offshore wind through the Contracts for
Difference scheme, costs have reduced by
>50% in the last decade. This provides a
clear example of policy ‘pull’ whereby open
competition worked to drive cost reductions
through deployment and innovation. As
noted throughout the strategy, government
will work with industry, businesses and
consumers to consider the removal of
regulatory barriers which may be hindering our
transition to net zero.

Encouraging private sector
investment
21. To deliver net zero, it is essential that
public investment catalyses significant flows of
private investment into innovative companies
and activities. This means creating the right
conditions for all businesses to innovate and
giving them the confidence to do so. The right
conditions will often involve de‑risking capital
in the forms of grants (allowing freedom to
innovate) and concessionary capital (allowing
businesses to commercialise and scale their
operations). Providing the private sector
with clarity on government R&D priorities
can also help to build the confidence to
invest in innovative companies and activities.
As outlined, our Net Zero Research &
Innovation Framework sets out a structure
for this and a future update will demonstrate
how the government is delivering against
this Framework.

212

22. In Build Back Better: our plan for growth,
and the Innovation Strategy, we set out our
aim to unlock the potential of the £2.2 trillion
held in UK pension schemes by addressing
barriers to long-term investment. The
government has established the Productive
Finance Working Group, which published its
roadmap for increasing productive finance
investment in September 2021,7 and is
progressing policy development through
several Department for Work and Pensions
consultations. These workstreams explore
ways to make it easier for schemes to invest in
alternative assets, including equity investment
in innovative firms; creating the conditions for
capital to flow into the UK’s most promising
firms will help ensure that finance is available
for the innovation required to meet our net
zero goals and improve outcomes for UK
savers. Government will continue to engage
closely with pension funds and the investment
industry to understand the scope for
industry‑led initiatives that take advantage of
innovation investment opportunities.
23. We will also provide the right conditions
to attract private investment in R&D and
innovation, including through tax and
regulatory frameworks as well as policy signals
from government. At Spring Budget 2021,
the Government announced a review of R&D
tax reliefs with the publication of a wideranging consultation. The review will ensure
that the reliefs are up-to-date, competitive
and well-targeted.

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy

Case study: Energy
Entrepreneur’s Fund (EEF)
Since 2012, the UK government’s Energy
Entrepreneurs Fund (EEF) has awarded
£72 million worth of grants, supported 156
projects, and leveraged more than £500
million in private investment – a figure that
is still growing. The EEF supplies innovation
grants for SMEs and start-up companies to
back the development and demonstration of
disruptive technologies whilst also supporting
our decarbonisation targets.
Axis Energy Projects (AEP) was funded with
over £200,000 with £40,000 of match-funding
from the private sector. AEP tested floating
offshore wind (FOW) technology in Edinburgh,
Scotland simulating how FOW can be resistant
to 100-year storm events in water depths of
65 – 100 metres. The project has increased
technology readiness levels from 3 (research)
to 6/7 (deployment). The programme has had

several achievements including supporting the
displacement of over 21 million kilograms of
CO2 per year and it will also help to lower the
Levelised Cost of Energy (LCOE) with a 30%
reduction in comparison to other FOW designs
and comparable offshore fixed installations.
AEP’s research and testing has also reduced
the operating costs including low-cost
deployment and reduced dependency on
specialist vessels. A new company has been
formed – Axis Energy TLB Ltd. – which
will enable the commercialisation of the
technology, having secured trademarks and
patents around the world. A recent report
from the Offshore Renewable Energy Catapult
(OREC) predicts that the UK FOW industry
could support up to 17,000 jobs by 2050
and generate a gross value added (GVA)
of £33.6 billion.

213

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Wider support
24. Non-financial support in the form of
engagement with businesses is also key to
the development and deployment of new
technologies, systems, policies and business
models to achieve net zero. This includes,
for example, support provided through
UKRI, its Knowledge Transfer Network, and
other bodies like the Catapult network and
Intellectual Property Office. It also includes
UKRI’s digital platform pilot programme, which
will be used to bring net zero businesses
together with investors for deal flow and
to make information on companies more
accessible to investors. The Innovation
Strategy set out how we will build on this
important support and provide advice,
networking opportunities, skills development,
and testing facilities. This includes a new
online Innovation hub from Innovate UK, which
will make it easier for businesses to navigate
the government’s funding offer, and expansion
of the Innovate EDGE service which helps
firms to enhance their investment readiness.
More detail on our approach to green jobs and
skills is set out in the Green jobs, skills, and
industries chapter.
25. The Innovation Strategy also set out
our ambition for government departments
to procure more innovative solutions.
Departments will produce clear policy problem
statements that describe the priority outcomes
that they want to solve or achieve. Alongside
this, every major project8 should publish
an outcome statement. Both measures will
improve demand-signalling from departments,
allowing them to procure innovation to
accelerate the UK’s transition to net zero. This
will help us to leverage public procurement as
a tool that drives greener and more resilient
outcomes across public services.

214

International collaboration and
leadership
26. Building on our approach domestically,
we are committed to continued active
membership of Mission Innovation as the
primary forum to strengthen international
cooperation on clean energy innovation which
is essential for our long-term climate and
energy goals. An ambitious second phase of
Mission Innovation is a priority for government.
We will provide global leadership and commit
to co-leading missions to build a renewablepowered future and deliver low cost, low
carbon hydrogen.
27. Elsewhere, UK participation in Horizon
Europe, the world’s largest collaborative
research programme worth around €95
billion over the next decade, will help us
reach our net zero goals. With a minimum
of 35% of funding earmarked for climate
change projects, this collaboration with other
world leaders in net zero research will drive
further progress.
28. Further detail on government’s plans for
international collaboration and leadership,
including Mission Innovation, can be found in
the International leadership and collaboration
chapter of the strategy.

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy

Case study: Horizon 2020
•

Secure, Clean and Efficient Societal
Challenge - Between 2014 and 2020,
around €5.9 billion was allocated through
Horizon 2020, to support non-nuclear
research through the Secure, Clean
and Efficient Energy Societal Challenge.
This aimed to support transition to a
sustainable and competitive system
focused on efficiency, low carbon
technologies and smart cities.

•

Nova Innovation - Nova is an Edinburghbased tidal energy device and project
developer based in Edinburgh and
Shetland. Nova was awarded a total of
€32.9 million in funding from Horizon 2020,
including €20 million funding from Societal
Challenge for Secure, Clean and Efficient
Energy for their projects investigating
tidal energy. The project allowed Nova to
access infrastructure that is not available
in the UK, for example testing facilities in
the Netherlands, and provided networking
opportunities that led to Nova working with
major multinational companies to create
bespoke components.

215

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

4ii. Green Investment
Leading the world in green finance
Our Key Commitments
•

Use the UK Infrastructure Bank (UKIB) to crowd in private finance, support more
than £40 billion of investment, and pull through low carbon technologies and
sectors to maturity and scale.

•

Continue to issue green gilts following the success of the UK’s debut sovereign
green bond in September 2021, which aims to raise a minimum of £15 billion this
financial year. Issue a National Savings & Investment Green Retail Savings Product.

•

Support the British Business Bank’s new objective to incorporate net zero and
wider environmental, social and governance strategy across all activity, as well
as the updated FCA and Bank of England’s remit reflecting the importance of
environmental sustainability and the transition towards net zero.

•

Introducing new Sustainability Disclosures Requirements through Greening Finance:
A Roadmap to Sustainable Investing, including through:
–

Becoming the first G20 country to make disclosures aligned to the Taskforce
for Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) mandatory across
the UK economy.

–

Developing a UK Green Taxonomy and creating the Green Technical Advisory
Group to advise on greenwashing and how to implement the taxonomy
in a UK context.

•

We published our roadmap setting out our approach to sustainability disclosures
ahead of COP26. This includes a commitment to publish a second iteration of the
Green Finance Strategy for the UK which will outline the pathway to net zero for
finance in the UK.

•

We will work with external partners and data providers to better track private
investment into the net zero economy going forward.

216

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy

The challenge
1. Both public and private investment will
be crucial for any path to net zero. While
we expect most investment to come from
the private sector, market failures mean
the private sector alone will not deliver
emissions reductions and innovation at
the pace required.

2. Our 2019 Green Finance Strategy
demonstrated how the strategic use of public
funds, long-term policy frameworks, and
signalling can leverage private investment into
the technologies and infrastructure that will be
needed to deliver net zero. Each technology
and sector will present its own challenges,
and long-term government support for a large
pipeline of projects will be needed.

Our goal
3. We will work with the private sector to
deliver a world-leading net zero financial
system, ready to seize the opportunities of
net zero. Climate-related financial risk will be
embedded into our regulatory frameworks to
help guide capital flows to green investments.
4. We estimate that additional capital
investment must grow from present levels
to an average of £50-60bn per year through
the late 2020s and 2030s. Most of this
investment will come from the private sector,
providing new opportunities for businesses
and investors.

5. This will mean supporting the full funding
cycle, from emerging technologies through
to infrastructure and project finance, to
deliver the economic transition. Each green
technology and infrastructure will require
different types of financial support depending
on its maturity, as shown in figure 28. We
must engage all types of capital, from earlystage grant and angel investment through to
institutional finance like pension fund investors.
6. The UK is a world leading financial
hub, with access to global capital pools,
outstanding professional services, and a
robust legal and regulatory framework. As
such, the UK financial services industry is
poised to enable private capital to flow into our
net zero investment needs.

217

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Figure 27 - Public Finance Interventions across the different stages of
commercialisation9
Research and
development

Build
and scale

Commercial
prototype

Start-ups/Corporate R&D

Proven commercial
proposition

Capital markets
ready
Scale

Scale up & Growth

nce
depende
Financial in

More government support

Less government support
Supporting framework

Financing Green

Sovereign
Green Bond

Green skills

Greening the financial system

UK Green
Taxonomy

7. Public funds will be used strategically to
support new technologies, as well as emerging
sectors, as they move from the innovation
stage through to commercialisation and
deployment. Early-stage R&D is supported
by various government grants. Later-stage
organisations can reach commercialisation
and benefit from investment through the Clean
Growth Venture Capital (VC) Fund or support
from the British Business Bank (BBB). These
stages of support are essential for scaling the
necessary technologies and supporting the
growth of businesses aligned to meeting our
net zero ambitions.

218

NZ aligned regulation

8. Providing the suitable conditions for
regulatory and early-stage innovation is a
significant part of our Net Zero Strategy, but
we must also mobilise the wider financial
sector to meet the upfront investment
challenge. This means stimulating new ways
of providing information to markets on green
investment and exposure to climate related
financial risk, and providing the investment
conditions to mobilise private capital into a
portfolio of net zero financing.

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy
9. We are driving more disclosure and
transparency in the markets on climate risks
and opportunities through the introduction of
Sustainability Disclosure Requirements, as
outlined in Greening Finance: A Roadmap to
Sustainable Investing. These bring together
and streamline UK sustainability reporting
requirements, including reporting aligned with
the Taskforce for Climate-Related Financial
Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations and UK
Green Taxonomy disclosures.
10. Targeted public intervention via the British
Business Bank (BBB), UK Export Finance
and the UK Infrastructure Bank (UKIB) will pull
through investment from the private sector. For
instance, British Patient Capital, a commercial
subsidiary of the BBB, is contributing to the
transition to net zero through its existing
investment strategy: 9% of its underlying
investment portfolio is in clean growth,
sustainability, and mobility companies.

11. This builds on the growing voluntary
commitments from financial institutions to a
net zero transition that are already pivoting
financial flows towards net zero in the run‑up
to COP26.10 For example, the Glasgow
Financial Alliance for Net Zero (GFANZ),
which was launched as part of the COP26
Presidency, brings together many of the
world’s biggest banks, asset owners, asset
managers, insurers and service providers that
are credibly committed to achieving net zero
emissions. Using the UN’s Race to Zero as the
entry criteria, the gold standard for net zero
commitments, GFANZ has raised, deepened,
and broadened the global financial sector’s
net zero ambitions. GFANZ has launched as
ambitious body of technical work to support
net zero aligned investment and accelerate the
transition to a net zero financial system and
global economy.
12. We will publish an update to the Green
Finance Strategy in 2022 which will include a
net zero transition pathway for the UK financial
sector. This will set out how this crucial sector
will transition to net zero as a whole.

219

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Financing green
13. The scale of the net zero challenge and
persistent market failures mean that public
sector intervention is needed to shape and
accelerate the flow of private capital. The
right policy signals can act as a catalyst for
private sector investment, as shown by by £90
billion of new investment in renewable energy
since 2012, in part facilitated by the Electricity
Market Reforms (EMR).11 By bringing down
the cost of capital through strong policy
frameworks, we will reduce the financing costs
of reaching net zero, delivering a better deal
for the taxpayer.

14. The pathways set out in this strategy
demonstrate that, whilst each sector requires
its own policy framework, there are crosscutting interventions required to support the
transition to net zero. We will replicate the
success of offshore wind and take actions
to secure access to finance across the
economy, ensuring that all sectors are able to
access private investment going forward. For
example, the Industrial Decarbonisation and
Hydrogen Revenue Support (IDHRS) scheme
(see paragraph 19), will unlock private sector
capital for industrial carbon capture and
hydrogen production projects by providing
long-term certainty to investors, de-risking
revenue streams in these sectors.

Figure 28 - Low carbon sectors commercial maturity and associated capital
requirements12
Research and
development

Commercial
prototype

Build
and scale

Start-ups/R&D

Net Zero
Innovation
Portfolio

CC&S

Energy Efficiency
Retrofits

Revenue
support:
business
models

Clean
Growth
Fund

More Government Financing
Grants

Electrification
of transport

Long-term
energy storage
Advanced
Nuclear

Capital markets
ready
Scale

Scale up & Growth

Low Carbon
Hydrogen

ture based
lutions

Proven commercial
proposition

Offshore
wind
Sector
financial
independence
Financial risk /
cost of capital

UK Infra
Bank

Less Government Financing

VC investment funds
Crowdfunding
VCT/(S)EIS funds

Corporate ventures
Private Equity, Infrastructure Funds & Banks

Institutional investors
e.g . LGIM, HSBC,
pension funds, etc

Supporting framework
Financing Green
Sovereign
Green Bond

220

Green skills

Greening the financial system
UK Green
Taxonomy

NZ aligned regulation

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy
15. Through the net zero innovation portfolio,
funding is provided for low carbon technology
innovation. As these technologies, and
sectors, commercialise, they can benefit from
further investment readiness support to help
them access repayable private finance. For
example, the Natural Environment Investment
Readiness Fund (NEIRF),13 launched by Defra
and the Environment Agency in 2021, will build
the portfolio of potential investments for net
zero investors in nature.
16. Some of these technologies may also
avail of venture capital to allow them to scale
rapidly. Government has shown its support
for this necessary innovation underpinning
its clean growth objectives with a £20 million
cornerstone investment in the venture capital
Clean Growth Fund14. This Fund aims to
accelerate the deployment of innovative clean
technologies that reduce greenhouse gas
emissions, alongside catalysing the UK clean
growth venture capital market and leveraging
private sector funding into early‑stage clean
tech start-ups. For example, the fund led a
£4.7 million investment round into Piclo (the
independent energy trading marketplace) with
co‑investment from Mott MacDonald Ventures.
17. The BBB is a government-owned
economic development bank with a mission to
drive sustainable growth and prosperity across
the UK, and to enable the transition to a net
zero economy, by improving access to finance
for smaller businesses. UK Government has
worked with the BBB on their new mission
and objective to support the UK’s transition
to a net zero economy and incorporate
environmental, social and governance issues
across of its activities. The new net zero
objective will support firms looking to move
towards net zero, helping the UK reduce its
energy consumption and mitigate the impacts
of climate change.

18. Going beyond SME finance to larger scale
infrastructure finance, there are significant
pools of private finance ready to deploy into
UK projects but there can be a mismatch
between market appetite and the risk profile of
projects. Infrastructure investment is vulnerable
to market failure, as it is often complex, large,
novel and long‑term. Launched in June 2021,
the new UK Infrastructure Bank can play a
pivotal role in this space, crowding in private
sector investment in important areas and
helping to kick start new sectors. Across the
Bank’s full mandate (also covering regional
growth), it has £12 billion of equity and debt
capital and will be able to deploy £10 billion of
government guarantees. We expect the Bank
to use this to crowd in private investment as
a cornerstone investor or guarantor to enable
more than £40 billion of investment in the
areas most prone to market failure, and to
help deliver its dual policy focus of tackling
climate change and supporting regional and
local economic growth. Furthermore, the
Bank will play a pivotal role in catalysing the
role of local government in the transition, by
financing strategic infrastructure projects led
by local authorities, and providing advice and
expertise in order to strengthen the pipeline of
investable projects.
19. Industries will need to be supported in
their transition away from high carbon emitting
operations. For example, the IDHRS scheme
will provide a revenue mechanism to enable
deployment of industrial carbon capture and
hydrogen production. UK Export Finance
(UKEF)’s Transition Export Development
Guarantees (TEDG), launched in 2020, will
ensure that businesses, including those in the
supply chain, are supported at all stages of
their transition journey. This product can be
used by a company for working capital, capital
expenditure or R&D needs, provided they have
a credible transition plan. The first TEDG was
announced in August with UKEF providing
an 80% guarantee on the £430 million
commercial loan to Wood Plc. This support
from UKEF will help Wood to continue to
capitalise on opportunities linked to clean
221

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
energy, hydrogen and decarbonisation.
Furthermore, this instrument will support the
export of low carbon technology from the
UK as evidenced by this guarantee which will
support Wood to take advantage of green
trade opportunities.
20. The UK financial system is also taking a
global leadership role transition financing and
sustainable finance more widely. An example
of transition finance leadership is the London
Stock Exchange Group (LSEG) which was the
first exchange globally to launch a dedicated
Transition Bond Segment. This distinct
transition label is the application of globally
recognised standards, enhancing visibility
and providing assurance to issuers and
investors. We have seen the financial sector
in the UK take the lead in net zero transition
(for example, through the Glasgow Financial
Alliance for Net Zero15) as well as leading
financial innovation (such as Green Home
Finance Innovation fund).
21. The Chancellor, in his Mansion House
speech16 in July 2021, set out how the
government will ensure that the financial
system in the UK plays a major role in the
delivery of the UK’s net zero target and
ambition for a ‘nature positive’ future. This will
build on the investment principles outlined
in the 25 Year Environment Plan including
‘do no significant harm’ to the environment
with investment, and implement a series of
programmes aimed at building the portfolio
of investable assets across the UK. This will
involve providing grant programmes like the
Natural Environment Investment Readiness
Fund (NEIRF) to help nature-based projects
become investment ready, but also providing
capital through public-private impact funds
such as the Big Nature Impact Fund to
leverage in private finance. In addition to
investing in climate and environmental
solutions, government is also committed
to ensuring sufficient private capital is
available for investment into adaptation and
resilience measures.
222

22. Furthermore, the government is
supporting the development of a Taskforce
on Nature-Related Financial Disclosures
(TNFD). This will provide a framework for
corporate and financial institutions to report
and act on evolving nature-related risks to
support a shift in global financial flows away
from nature-negative outcomes and toward
nature-positive outcomes. This market-led,
global initiative will build, consult on, and test,
its framework over the next 2 years and will be
designed to complement the TCFD by building
on its 4-pillar approach and drawing on its
lessons learnt.
23. These interventions are important to
driving the desired ‘nature-positive’ future.
As set out in the Prime Minister’s Ten Point
Plan, we hope that the UK will also become
a leader in high-quality voluntary carbon
markets (VCMs). For these private markets to
scale successfully in support of net zero, their
integrity and use as an addition (rather than
alternative) to rapid decarbonisation will be
critical. The government is closely following
the important work of various sector-led
initiatives including: the Taskforce for Scaling
Voluntary Carbon Markets (TSVCM); the
Voluntary Carbon Markets Integrity Initiative
UK VCM Forum; and, the Financing UK Nature
Recovery coalition.
24. The UK Government issued its inaugural
green gilt on 21 September 2021. This was
a landmark transaction for sterling markets
and the UK. At £10 billion, it was the largest
sovereign green bond issuance to date and
attracted the largest ever order book for a
sovereign green bond. The inaugural green
gilt also achieved the largest “greenium” for
any debut sovereign green bond to date,
demonstrating good value for money for
the taxpayer (a “greenium” refers to more
favourable pricing achieved by the issuer
of a green bond compared to that for a
hypothetical, equivalent conventional bond).
The UK will then be following up with a second
issuance in mid-to-late October, as the UK
looks to build out a green yield curve. This

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy
followed the successful publication of the UK
Government Green Financing Framework on
30 June 2021, which outlines how proceeds
raised from the green gilts will help tackle
climate change, biodiversity loss and other
environmental challenges.
25. NS&I will issue its retail Green Savings
Bonds later in 2021. These bonds will be
the first standalone retail product to be tied
to a sovereign’s green bond framework
and will allow all UK savers to contribute
to the fight against climate change and the
government’s other environmental objectives.
It gives UK savers the opportunity to take
part in this collective effort to tackle climate
change by contributing to public spending
on green, whilst increasing awareness
in the government’s green initiatives.
This series of wholesale and retail green
financing issuances demonstrate the UK’s
commitment to sustainable finance ahead of
COP 26 in November.

26. We are also committed to tracking
finance flows, to complement how we
measure carbon. Hence, we will be working
with external partners and data providers
to better track private investment into the
net zero economy going forward. This will
enable the UK to robustly, and regularly,
assess the alignment of the UK’s financial
flows with net zero.
27. The UK launched the Green Finance
Education Charter in our 2019 Green
Finance Strategy,17 reflecting the need for
UK and global financial services industries
to develop the capabilities of their workforce
in green finance principles and practice.
Since then, twelve leading professional
bodies representing over 1 million finance
professionals have signed up to the Charter,
hosted by the Green Finance Institute. To
further build UK capacity, capability and
climate leadership, we will look to expand
Charter membership to universities and others,
and work with the Institute for Apprenticeships
and Technical Education (IfATE). We will
also seek to internationalise the Charter by
encouraging similar development overseas.

223

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Case study: The Green Finance
Institute model
The Green Finance Institute (GFI) was
established in 2019 with funding from HMG
and the City of London Corporation, though it
operates independently of government and is
commercially focused.
Sitting at the nexus between the public and
private sectors, the GFI provides critical
guidance to government and the financial
sector and delivers programmes which
mobilise investment and lending towards real
economy outcomes. Through the application
of the GFI’s rigorously designed financing
solutions, they have already identified and
co-designed effective interventions that have
deployed capital towards a net zero, carbon
resilient economy.
The GFI primarily operates by convening
and leading coalitions of global experts
that focus on different sectors and seek
to identify scalable financial solutions that
accelerate sector-specific transitions to a
low carbon future.
There are several coalitions and initiatives that
the GFI now operate:
•

The Coalition for the Energy Efficiency
of Buildings (CEEB) is the GFI’s flagship
programme, set up in 2019 to develop the
market for financing a net-zero climateresilient built environment. Today, the CEEB
has over 300 members and accounts for
70% of the UK mortgage market. This
work is now expanding into Europe.

224

•

In September 2020, the CEEB launched
the Green Home Finance Principles,
in collaboration with the Loan Markets
Association, to embed transparency
and consistency into the green home
finance market. Today, the Principles have
supported 11 financial institutions with
combined mortgage balances of +£480
billion to launch, or commit to launch,
green lending products that minimise the
risk of greenwashing.

•

The Coalition for the Decarbonisation of
Road Transport (CRDT) was established
in May 2021 to unlock financial barriers to
the decarbonisation of road transport and
enabling infrastructure.

•

The GFI played a key role in the Dasgupta
Review and is also working on a series
of potentially transformative funding
mechanisms to support the UK’s 25-year
Environment Plan alongside Defra and the
Environment Agency.

•

The GFI was appointed Chair and
convener of the Green Technical
Advisory Group (GTAG), tasked with
providing independent expert advice
to government on how to implement a
taxonomy in the UK.

•

The GFI is also hosting the Executive
Secretariat for the Taskforce on Naturerelated Disclosures and launching an
initiative this November to unlock the
barriers to channel private finance towards
nature in the UK.

•

In partnership with the City of London
Corporation, the GFI will host a Green
Horizon Summit at COP26, which
will focus on mobilising capital in the
transition to net zero.

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy

Greening finance
28. Financing the technologies required for
our transition to net zero is only part of the
solution. The transition represents both a
risk and an opportunity for the real economy
and the financial system that supports it. It
is therefore vital that climate-related financial
risks and impacts are factored into investment
decisions and reflected in the cost of finance
for different technologies and companies. To
achieve this, we will harness the international
reputation of the UK’s leading financial sector
to encourage private investment to support
low carbon innovation and manage climaterelated financial risk.
29. As the Chancellor outlined in his Mansion
House speech,18 the government intends
to introduce economy-wide Sustainability
Disclosure Requirements covering the whole
economy. This will include requirements to
report on businesses and investment products
impact on the climate and environment, as
well as the risks and opportunities these
impacts pose to business. Our approach is
detailed in Greening Finance: A Roadmap to
Sustainable Investing.
30. The UK has already established itself as
a world leader on green finance regulation,
becoming the first G20 country to make
disclosures aligned with the Task Force on
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
recommendations fully mandatory across the
economy by 2025. As part of the roadmap
to delivery, BEIS consulted earlier in the
year on mandatory climate-related financial
disclosures by publicly quoted companies,
large private companies and the largest
Limited Liability Partnerships (LLPs) from the
6th April 2022. Following widespread support
for the proposals, we will shortly be setting out
regulations to bring this into force, including a
requirement for scenario analysis - a powerful
tool to support companies in their assessment
of climate-related risks and opportunities.

31. Alongside measures to implement
mandatory disclosures aligned with the TCFD
recommendations for companies and LLPs:
•

The Financial Conduct Authority has
already introduced a listing rule for
premium listed companies which
commenced on 1 January 2021. This
requires companies to include a statement
in their annual financial report which
sets out whether their disclosures are
consistent with the recommendations
of the TCFD, and to explain why if they
have not done so.

•

Government introduced regulations, in
force from 1 October 2021, to require
pension schemes with £5 billion or more
in assets to report line with the TCFD’s
recommendations. By October 2022,
over 80% of members of occupational
pension schemes – and more than 70%
of assets under management – will be in
schemes reporting in line with the TCFD
recommendations.

32. Our stated objective is to increase the
quantity and quality of climate-related financial
disclosures in a proportionate manner. This
is to ensure market participants have better
information to adequately understand climaterelated financial risks and opportunities to
support the transition to net zero.
33. In November 2020, the Chancellor
announced that the government is
implementing a UK Green Taxonomy.
This will clearly set out the criteria which
specific economic activities must meet to
be considered environmentally sustainable.
The first two Technical Screening Criteria
(TSC) on climate change mitigation and
adaptation will be made by the end of 2022.
To support the development of the TSCs, we
have since announced the appointment of a
Green Technical Advisory Group (GTAG) in
June 2021. Made up a of range of financial
225

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
and business stakeholders, taxonomy and
data experts, and subject matter experts,
and chaired by the Green Finance Institute,
this will provide independent, non-binding
advice to the government on developing and
implementing a Green Taxonomy in the UK
context. For example, we have established
an Energy Working Group as part of the
GTAG to provide advice on key technologies
such as hydrogen and carbon capture and
storage. Taken together, these enhanced
Sustainability Disclosure Requirements will
support companies to communicate clear
and credible low carbon transition plans
needed by investors.

226

34. Key to delivering enhanced disclosure
on climate change is the availability of data
financial institutions can use. The UK Centre
for Greening Finance and Investment (CGFI)
is a national centre established to accelerate
the adoption and use of climate and
environmental data and analytics by financial
institutions internationally. CGFI will equip
financial institutions with the tools and capacity
required to effectively allocate capital to meet
net zero ambitions and ensure global UK
leadership in green finance and green finance
data and analytics.

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy

Case study: Providing a net zeroaligned regulatory environment
In March 2021, the Chancellor outlined his
recommendation to regulators that they
should “have regard to the government’s
commitment to achieve a net zero economy
by 2050”. There has already been significant
work by the Bank of England and the Financial
Conduct Authority.

•

In November 2020, the UK joint regulator
and government TCFD Taskforce, of
which the Bank is a member, published an
interim report and roadmap for mandatory
TCFD-aligned disclosure requirements
across the economy by 2025.

•

The Bank has also sought to lead by
example and in 2021 became the first
central bank to publish a climate-related
financial disclosure which included
analysis of financial asset portfolios held
for monetary policy purposes. The Bank
also committed to reduce the emissions
from its physical operations to net-zero by
2050 at the latest.

The Bank of England
The Bank’s approach to climate change is to
play a leading role, through its policies and
operations, in ensuring the financial system,
the macroeconomy, and the Bank of England
itself, are resilient to the risks from climate
change and supportive of the transition to a
net zero emissions economy.
Recent actions to deliver this include:
•

•

In April 2019, the Bank published a
comprehensive set of supervisory
expectations for how banks and insurers
should enhance their approaches to
managing the financial risks from climate
change. This was followed up in July 2020
with a Dear CEO letter, which included
additional guidance and set a deadline for
firms to embed fully these expectations by
the end of 2021.
In June 2021 the Bank launched its
Climate Biennial Exploratory Scenario
(CBES) exercise to assess the resilience of
individual banks, insurers, and the wider
UK financial system to three different
climate scenarios. These scenarios
are based on those published by the
international central banks and supervisors
Network for Greening the Financial
System (NGFS), of which the Bank is a
founding member and where it chairs
the workstream developing the NGFS
climate scenarios.

The Financial Conduct
Authority (FCA)
The FCA’s work on climate change and
sustainable finance aims to make sure
market participants can manage the risks,
impacts and opportunities from moving to a
more sustainable economy and can capture
opportunities from the net zero transition. Key
developments in 2021 include:
•

Introducing a TCFD-aligned Listing Rule
for premium-listed commercial companies,
and consulting on new proposals to
extend the application of the rule to
issuers of standard listed equity shares,
and to implement new disclosure rules
for asset managers, life insurers, and
FCA-regulated pension providers with
a focus on the information needs of
clients and customers;

•

Co-chairing work on climate-related
and sustainability disclosures at the
International Organisation of Securities
Commissions and the Financial
Stability Board;
227

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
•

Issuing a supervisory letter to the chairs
of Authorised Fund Managers, including a
set of guiding principles to help clarify the
FCA’s expectations for the design, delivery
and disclosure of retail responsible and
sustainable funds – both as applications
are submitted for authorisation and on
an ongoing basis;

•

Launching a comprehensive innovation
work programme on sustainability,
including the announcement that the
next cohort of the Digital Sandbox Pilot
will focus on sustainability and climate
change; the FCA has begun work with the
City of London Corporation and industry
to support the development of solutions
to ESG data and disclosures issues
via a digital testing environment, and is
aiming for this environment to go live
in Q1 2022; and,

•

Alongside the other financial regulators,
publishing an inaugural Climate Adaptation
Report (CAR) setting out the actions
the FCA and financial services industry
are taking to adapt to the challenges of
climate change; the CAR will include a
chapter on net zero which will explore
net zero commitments, targets, tools
and challenges.

228

4iii. Green Jobs, Skills,
and Industries
Creating the skilled workforce to deliver net zero and putting UK
supply chains at the forefront of global markets
Our Key Commitments
•

Publish sector and supply chain development plans for key low carbon sectors and
work with business to encourage investment in green skills and industries in the UK.

•

Publish a UK Critical Minerals strategy, setting out our approach to securing
technology-critical minerals and metals.

•

Support the development of a skilled, competitive supply chain for key green
industries in the UK.

•

Reform the skills system so that training providers, employers and learners are
incentivised and equipped to play their part in delivering the transition to net zero
– including by legislating for skills required for jobs that support action on climate
change and other environmental goals to be considered in the development of new
local skills improvement plans.

•

Deliver a Lifetime Skills Guarantee and grow key post-16 training programmes
(such as apprenticeships, Skills Bootcamps and T levels) in line with the needs of
employers in the green economy, helping individuals get the training they need for
a job in the green economy, either at the start of their careers or when retraining or
upskilling once already in the workforce.

•

Introduce a sustainability and climate change strategy for education and children’s
services which will include a focus on equipping children and young people with the
knowledge and skills they need to contribute to the green economy.

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

The Challenge
1. The national and global shift towards
net zero provides a once in a generation
opportunity to level up the country, create new
green jobs, and put the UK at the forefront of
growing global markets in green technologies.
Delivering on this promise, whilst meeting our
ambitious climate and environmental targets,
will be in a large part dependent on having
a sufficiently skilled workforce and robust,
competitive supply chains in the UK.
2. Recent developments have thrown
into sharp relief the inherent vulnerabilities
associated with complex global supply
chains and shocks to the global economic
system. The transition to net zero will change
the nature of the UK’s critical supply chains.
Our aim is to help ensure that supply chains
critical for the transition to net zero are secure,
ensuring that we have access to the materials,
minerals, and chemicals that our growing
green economy will need. Our approach is that
there is no “one size fits all” model for building
resilience in individual supply chains: often a
combination of levers may be the best solution
to address a vulnerability.

230

3. We will need tens of thousands of
engineers to build and maintain new offshore
wind farms off the coasts of northern
England and Scotland, construct nuclear
power stations in the South of England,
and manufacture electric vehicles in the
Midlands; skilled builders and trades people
to retrofit homes and buildings across the
country; and conservation and biodiversity
professionals to deliver nature-based solutions
to climate change.
4. Alongside a broader shift to digitisation
and automation, we can expect the transition
to net zero to be one of the dominant
labour market trends in the next 30 years:
approximately 6.3 million jobs in the UK, about
one in five, are likely to be affected by the
transition to a green economy, with workers
experiencing either an increase or decrease in
the demand for their skills.19

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy

Our Goals
5. The government’s ambition is to:
•

Support up to 440,000 jobs across net
zero industries in 2030, contributing
towards a broader pivot to a greener
economy which could support 2 million
jobs in green sectors or by greening
existing sectors by:
–

–

•

Working with business to grow
green industries, supply chains and
skills in the UK, and ensure our
resilience to international changes in
supply chains; and,
Using our net zero policy and funding
to promote the growth of green skills
and the green economy.

Enable workers, industries, and places
to transition to a net zero economy by
2050, and support industry to develop
the skilled workforce to deliver a green
industrial revolution by:

–

Reforming the skills system to
make it more responsive to the
needs of employers, so that training
providers, employers, and workers are
incentivised and equipped to support
the transition to net zero;

–

Ramping up support for workers
in the high carbon economy to
transition to green jobs;

–

Working with business to ensure
people from all backgrounds can
access the opportunities in the
green economy, including through
career advice; and,

–

Providing children and young people
with the high-quality education and
training they need to work in a future
green career, through improving
teacher training and development
in STEM and other key subjects,
and expanding post-16 training
programmes in line with the needs of
the green economy.

231

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

The Green Jobs Taskforce
To better understand how the UK could grasp opportunities of the Green
Industrial Revolution, the Department of Business, Energy and Industrial
Strategy and the Department of Education launched the Green Jobs
Taskforce in November 2020. The Taskforce provided an independent
assessment of the potential skills and labour market impacts of the net
zero transition, including how we can ensure green jobs are open to all and
support workers to transition to the green economy.
The independent Taskforce, which included representatives from industry,
trade unions, the skills sector and community organisations, took a broad
view of green jobs, as “employment in an activity that directly contributes
to, or indirectly supports, the achievement of the UK’s net zero emissions
target and other environmental goals, such as nature restoration and
mitigation against climate risks.” Its report, published in July 2021, included
15 recommendations for government, industry and the skills sector, which
focused on three themes across the “life cycle” of green jobs: driving
investment in net zero to support good quality green jobs in the UK; building
pathways into good green careers; and supporting workers in the high carbon
economy to transition.
The ideas generated through the Taskforce and its engagement with industry
have informed the development of this Strategy.

232

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy

Working with business to grow green UK industries and resilient
supply chains
6. The investment needed for the transition
to net zero will primarily be delivered by the
private sector. As such, our first priority is
to provide businesses, investors, workers,
and skills providers with policy certainty to
unlock investment, ensuring we support green
industries to develop in the UK.
7. In line with Build Back Better: Our Plan for
Growth, we are taking action across a range
of low carbon industries with the greatest
economic potential and competitive strength.
In doing so, we will support the growth of UK
supply chains and create new opportunities
for UK businesses and level up the country.
We are acting to build green industries such
as offshore wind in North East England and
in Scotland, carbon capture and hydrogen
production in our industrial heartlands, electric
vehicles manufacture in the midlands and
Northeast of England, and the restoration and
protection of nature in rural areas.

8. We also recognise that the starting
position when building resilience in critical
supply chains should be to take a marketfirst approach. The UK prospers under
an open economy and openness itself
confers resilience. We will leverage the UK’s
competitive strengths across the supply chain,
while deploying those levers available to the
Government – including UK Export Finance
and the new Office for Investment – to ensure
that we exploit our strengths, while supporting
those areas that could be vulnerable
to global shocks.

233

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Case studies: Driving investment
into green supply chains in the UK
The Prime Minister’s Ten Point Plan, and our
subsequent sectoral strategies, put in place
a range of funding and policy initiatives to
enable green industries and supply chains to
develop in the UK, supporting our ambition to
deliver on green jobs:

Building the Offshore Wind
Supply Chain
Announced as part of the Ten Point Plan, the
UK’s offshore wind manufacturing industry has
already seen almost £1.5 billion of investment
unlocked by the £160 million Offshore Wind
Manufacturing Investment Support scheme,
which aims to further develop the UK’s
offshore wind capabilities. The investments
have seen a significant boost over the summer
with up to 3,600 jobs supported across the
Humber region. This continues to lay the
groundwork to deliver 40 GW of energy from
offshore wind by 2030 and for UK businesses
and workers to take full advantage of the
booming offshore market in the UK and
internationally, support up to 60,000 jobs in
the industry and its supply chain, and help
eliminate the UK’s contribution to carbon
emissions by 2050.20
We are preparing for the next wave of
deployment around the UK, with world
leading 1 GW deployment targets for
innovative floating offshore wind turbines.
The government has set up a floating
offshore wind demonstration programme
to support development of state-of-the-art
technologies and products in the floating
offshore wind industry.

Net Zero Hydrogen Fund
Government has set an ambition to deploy
5 GWs of low carbon hydrogen production
capacity in the UK by 2030, supported by
234

a package of measures including the Net
Zero Hydrogen Fund (NZHF). The NZHF will
kickstart the hydrogen economy in the early
2020s by supporting projects with upfront
costs, stimulating private sector investment,
and developing the pipeline of projects
needed to deliver hydrogen production
at scale by 2030.

Transforming automotive
manufacturing
The UK is already capitalising on opportunities
from the global shift to electric vehicles, as
demonstrated by recent investments made
by Stellantis in Ellesmere Port, and Nissan
and Envision AESC in Sunderland. Allocating
a further £350 million of our up to £1 billion
Automotive Transformation Fund (ATF) to
support the electrification of UK vehicles and
their supply chains. This will help ensure
the UK maximises the benefits from the
transition to a zero emission vehicle future
and support tens of thousands of high-quality
green jobs across the UK. Government
and industry have also jointly committed
around £1 billion through the Advanced
Propulsion Centre for collaborative research
and development in the next generation of
low carbon vehicle technologies. A further
£318 million of government funding has been
provided to put the UK at the forefront of the
design, development, and manufacturing of
electric batteries through the Faraday Battery
Challenge and nearly £80 million to Driving
the Electric Revolution to accelerate growth
in the supply chain for power electronics,
machines and drives.

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy

Driving investment and jobs in the
natural environment
Government’s Green Recovery Challenge
Fund is supporting over 150 projects across
England that are tackling climate change,
restoring nature, and supporting 2,500
green jobs. The Nature for Climate Fund is
also contributing to net zero and creating
and supporting green jobs by funding new
woodland creation and peatland restoration.
In addition, the £9 million Natural Environment
Investment Readiness Fund is stimulating a
pipeline of nature projects that can attract
private sector investment.

235

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
9. We are working in partnership with our
world-class sectors to enable them to take
part in the transition, for example through the
North Sea Transition Deal, which committed
to focusing on supporting the transformation
of the oil and gas supply chain to service
the low carbon energy sector. Building
on this, we have established the Energy
Supply Chain Taskforce (UKESC) as a joint
enterprise between industry and government
to guide policy making and maximise the
jobs and business opportunities from the
transition in the UK. The UKESC cover all
energy sectors and regions of the UK and,
building on work already underway, it will
map the energy project pipeline and identify
higher value segments of the supply chain to
prioritise in the UK.
10. The Integrated Review Security, Defence,
Development and Foreign Policy committed
to ‘a resilient UK able to withstand and
proactively tackle the challenges of today
and the future’, including a specific focus on
supply chain resilience, committing to ‘using
all our economic tools and our independent
trade policy to create economic growth that
is distributed more equitably across the UK
and to diversify our supply chains in critical
goods’. Similarly, the Plan for Growth outlines
the importance of international markets to
ensuring diverse supply sources for the goods
and services we need, improving the resilience
of our supply chains and benefitting prosperity.

236

11. The development of resilient, efficient,
and competitive supply chains will be a
collaborative strategic endeavour. To support
this, in May 2021 we published the CCUS
Supply Chain Roadmap, which sets out how
government and industry can work together
to harness a strong UK supply chain, and
we have committed to publish a hydrogen
sector development action plan in 2022,
which will outline how the government will
support companies to secure supply chain
opportunities, skills and jobs in the sector.
We will build on this by working with industry
to publish further sector and supply chain
development plans for those low carbon
sectors where the UK has the potential
to capture an economic advantage. This
will include ensuring we are resilient to
international changes in supply caused by
external shocks, including climate-related
disruption, spikes in global demand, rising
commodity costs, or artificial constraints
on supply. For example, we will need to
ensure we have access to a diverse range
of sources of chemicals, given they feed
into 95% of our manufacturing base. As we
move forward, where possible, government
will provide more visibility around planned
deployment cycles to increase the opportunity
for suppliers to invest in long-term production,
infrastructure, and training.

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy

Deep Dive - Critical Minerals,
Supply Chains and Net Zero
The transition to Net Zero means new supply
chains are becoming critical to the UK’s
energy production. Critical minerals are
metals and non-metals that are vital for a
defined economic activity and for the wellbeing of the country, yet whose supply may
be at risk owing to geological distribution,
lack of substitutes and/or other factors.
Such minerals provide materials essential
for components in many of today’s rapidly
growing clean energy technologies – from offshore wind turbines to electric vehicles. The
World Bank suggests that the production of
minerals such as graphite, lithium and cobalt,
could increase by nearly 500% by 2050 to
meet the growing demand.21
The government is committed to working
with industry and with international partners
to safeguard these supply chains and our
future economic resilience. We are actively
supporting the adoption of transparent, ethical
and responsible mining practices, reflecting
environmental, social and governance (ESG)
considerations, and are participating in the
development of global standards through the
British Standards Institution.
We will establish an Expert Committee on
Critical Minerals to provide independent advice
to government on the scope and content of
a critical minerals strategy and will publish
an updated list of these minerals to guide
investment decisions. We will establish a
Critical Minerals Intelligence Centre to provide
robust, dynamic analysis on stocks and flows
to guide our decision-making.

•

Ensuring the UK has a reliable supply of
critical minerals and metals;

•

Establishing an enabling environment for
growing the sector in the UK;

•

Showing leadership through working
bilaterally and multilaterally to support
work on international standards to extend
and strengthen the circular economy in
technology-critical minerals;

•

Ensuring our work to build critical mineral
supply chain resilience supports our
international development priorities;

•

Using our R&D resource to build a better
understanding of markets and prices to
help mitigate the impact of supply shocks
and demand spikes, and to enable better
foresight and early intervention; and,

•

Work with UK industry (including
SMEs) to consider how private and
public sectors can better share risks
to promote investment and drive
innovation at all levels.

We will support the engagement of the UK’s
mining sector in new and existing markets,
facilitating investment and collaboration in
extraction and processing opportunities. We
will also champion free and open global trade
including through Free Trade Agreements to
support this ambition and will explore use of
Freeports to support opportunities for the UK
to develop as a critical minerals processing
hub supplying Europe and beyond.

Going forward, the government will publish a
UK Critical Minerals strategy in 2022, setting
out our approach to securing the technologycritical minerals and metals aimed at:

237

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Supporting workers, industries, and places to transition and
develop the skills needed to deliver net zero
12. There are urgent and emerging skills
challenges across the green economy which
we will need to address over the short and
long term if we are to meet our ambitions
for a Green Industrial Revolution. We aim
to quadruple our offshore wind capacity
to 40 GW, with the growth in this sector
supporting up to 60,000 jobs in 2030.22 In
the construction and heating sectors, up
to 230,000 skilled trades people could be
required in 2030 to deliver the retrofitting of
houses23 and to meet our ambition of installing
600,000 heat pumps a year by 2028, we
will need to rapidly increase the number
of qualified installers from around 3,000 to
35,000 within the next 7 years.24 As the
automotive manufacturing sector transforms
to producing electric vehicles, as many as
50,000 workers in the UK’s automotive
manufacturing sector could need reskilling by
2025.25 In forestry and its supporting sectors,
industry estimates point to projected labour
demand of approximately 2,000 jobs over the
next five years.26
13. As well as specialists in these sectors,
employers will also need workers with
wider cross-cutting skills to deliver net zero,
including digital and data skills, project
management, communications and change
management. 27 There will also be increased
need to work in a multidisciplinary way due
to the way work will change in some sectors
such as whole house retrofitting will need
knowledge of multiple technologies.28

238

14. The impact of the transition on the labour
market will not be evenly spread across the
UK, reflecting the geographical distribution
of where existing industries will need to
adapt and others new ones will flourish.29
However, there are opportunities for workers
in transitioning sectors, such as oil and gas,
to utilise their specialist skills in key important
green sectors, sectors such as hydrogen and
CCUS with these two sectors expected to
grow from the middle part of this decade.

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy

Working with industry and key partners to support good green
jobs and skills
15. Industry and government will need
to take action to ensure the UK has the
skilled workforce to deliver net zero and that
workers, industries and places are supported
on the transition. This will be particularly
important given the pace and scale of the
change, and the specific challenges faced
by smaller companies in some sectors and
supply chains. To drive this forward we have
announced a cross-cutting delivery group
to include representatives from industry, the
skills sector and other key stakeholders to
support the development and delivery of
the Government’s plans for green jobs and
skills. We will set out further details of the
membership and mandate of the cross-cutting
delivery group later this year.
16. To support this work, and monitor our
progress, it is vital that we continue to develop
the evidence on how net zero will impact jobs
and skills. The Office for National Statistics
will seek to refine our understanding and
measurement of the green economy as the
UK transitions to net zero, including looking
at such issues as quality of work and diversity
within the green economy.

18. We want to see continuous improvement
in the quality of jobs in the UK, both in the
creation of new high-quality jobs which
support Government priorities such as net
zero, and through in-work progression. We will
continue to drive this agenda forward through
the Employment Bill, which will support our
ambition to make the UK the best place in the
world to work and grow a business, and the
cross-cutting delivery group will consider how
government and industry can work together to
ensure green jobs are good jobs.
19. While skills policy is a devolved
matter, the Government also welcomes
close engagement with the devolved
administrations, Mayoral Combined Authorities
and the Greater London Authority, on this
agenda, to ensure everyone across the UK
has access to green skills and jobs.

17. Join up between local bodies, employers
and local communities will be key to ensuring
an effective transition. Building on the
measures set out in the Local Climate Action
chapter, and our skills system reforms, we will
assess how local areas are working to support
workers and communities with the net zero
transition across England.

239

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Working together across the UK
Examples of policy action by the Scottish
Government, Welsh Government and Northern
Ireland Executive

Northern Ireland Executive
The forthcoming Green Growth Strategy, will
be a multi-decade strategy to balance climate,
environment and the economy. It means a
move from a high to a low greenhouse gas
emissions economy to improve people’s
quality of life through green jobs and a
clean environment.
Innovation is key to the disruptive transition
required. ‘10X Economy’ sets out the vision
for the 2020s as a decade of innovation
bringing opportunity and growth. The focus
on innovation is reinforced in the Energy
Policy Options paper also strongly advocating
innovation. New skills will be critical to allow
innovation to flourish into delivery. The Skills
Strategy consultation recognises that a
transformational change in skills is required to
take advantage of Northern Ireland’s scale, yet
addressing the challenges in the skills sector.
To take one example, the decarbonisation of
gas infrastructure will involve the development
of new supply chains for production of
biomethane from anaerobic digestion plants
and development of hydrogen production
technologies, which will support green jobs
and new skills in these sectors.

Scotland
The Scottish Government has set out a
package of measures to create good,
green jobs, reskill those that need it and
provide a career platform for the next
generation. It includes:
•

a £100 million Green Jobs Fund to help
businesses create new, green jobs.
Related funding will make focused
investments in machinery and equipment
and research and development in
five priority sectors: energy transition;
transport; manufacturing; construction;
agriculture and land use;

•

a £25 million National Transition Training
Fund with a focus on:
–

The provision of green skills;

–

A Young Person’s Guarantee for
16-24 year olds;

–

The use of public procurement to build
low carbon supply chains.

The Climate Emergency Skills Action Plan
(CESAP) sets out a clear direction for the
change of Scotland’s skills system, and
signals the role that businesses, communities
and individuals across Scotland will play in
achieving this.
The CESAP focuses on immediate action
as well as the longer-term systemic change
that needs to take place by 2045. It is being
driven by senior representatives of central
and local government and its agencies, skills
providers, industry and independent experts,
and is chaired by Professor Dave Reay of
Edinburgh University.
The Scottish Government’s Green Jobs
Workforce Academy was launched in August
2021. The Academy will make it easier for
people from a wide range of backgrounds
to launch a green career, and to access

240

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy
appropriate training. The Academy will support
delivery of a skills guarantee for workers in
carbon-intensive sectors.

Wales
Since its launch in 2010 the £30+ million
BEACON, a collaboration led by Aberystwyth
University, working with Bangor and Swansea
Universities and the University of South Wales,
has built up a strong skill base in the bio
business sector by providing collaborative
R&D support for Welsh businesses30.
BEACON has worked successfully with
hundreds of companies, enabling them to
develop and trial ideas on an industrial scale,
and to get their products and services closer
to market. Products include bio plastics, food
additives, building materials and fuel.

241

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Reforming the skills system
20. We are driving forward reforms to put
employers at the heart of the skills system and
ensure colleges are responsive to the needs
of local economies. As demand for green skills
continue to grow across the UK, employers in
the green economy must prioritise investment
in the retraining and upskilling of their
workforce, and actively take the opportunity
to engage with education providers to shape
local provision.
21. Central to our strategic reforms are the
plans set out in the Skills for Jobs White
Paper, which will enable local employers to set
out their green skills needs to drive provision in
local colleges. The programme is made up of
two parts: local skills improvement plans and
the Development Fund.
22. First, the Trailblazers for local skills
improvement plans, led by employer
representative bodies will identify and
articulate unmet and future local skills needs
and work with further education providers
to adapt their technical training offer so that
it becomes more responsive to employers’
needs. Through the Skills and Post-16
Education Bill, we are legislating to put the
employer leadership of these plans on a
statutory footing and ensure they have regard
to skills needed to help deliver on our net zero
target, adaptation to climate change, and
other environmental goals.

242

23. Second, our £65 million Development
Fund pilots in 2021-2022 will support work
to identify employers’ skills needs, design
provision to respond, and build the capacity
of local further education providers to deliver.
Where local areas identify a skills need, for
example increasing the number of trained
retrofitters, providers could use this funding
to purchase equipment, train their staff, bring
in industry expertise to provide training, or
deliver new provision. The majority of the
18 pilots announced in July 2021 include a
project focused on green skills, covering areas
including decarbonisation, renewable energy,
and electric vehicles.
24. Alongside this. we want people to get
the advanced technical and higher technical
skills they need to get good jobs. Colleges’
place at the centre of their local communities
and economies means that they are key to
unlocking opportunities across the country
and to building back better. We are, therefore,
reforming the adult skills funding and
accountability system for further education
colleges and other training providers in a way
that will help improve our skills provision.
We are consulting on a range of proposals
to make sure colleges are better supported
to focus on helping their students into good
jobs; reduce the complexity of funding so
that colleges can focus on their core role of
education and training; and define clearer
roles and responsibilities for the key players
in the system. This means that, for the first
time, we will be able to reflect the value that
relevant courses deliver to the taxpayer in the
funding rate colleges receive for putting on
courses. This will encourage providers to put
on courses in subjects where there is strong
demand from employers. We will hold colleges
to account for delivering good outcomes, and
are consulting on proposals to introduce new
Accountability Agreements setting out national
priorities against which we expect colleges
to deliver, for example enabling students to
access opportunities in the green economy.

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy
25. Supporting the transition through the
skills system will require teachers in the
further education sector to have a strong
understanding of sustainability. To deliver this,
we have worked with employers to develop
a refreshed apprenticeship standard for
further education teaching (Level 5 Learning
and Skills Teacher), which came into effect
in September 2021. For the first time, all
further education teachers training via an
apprenticeship will be required to integrate
sustainability into their teaching, including
through modelling sustainable practices and
promoting sustainable development principles
in relation to their subject specialism. Early
estimates from the Trailblazer Group suggest
around 1,500 teachers each year could train
using this apprenticeship standard. This
standard will soon be incorporated into all
future further education teaching qualifications,
so that all teachers across all subject areas will
be able to embed and promote sustainability
in their teaching.

Ramping up support for workers in
high carbon sectors to transition to
green jobs
26. Over 80% of the workforce of 2030 is
already in work today31, as such meeting
our ambitious targets for climate action in
the next decade, and reaching net zero by
2050, will require government and industry
to work together to ensure workers in highcarbon sectors can retrain and upskill as
they move into jobs in the green economy.
Much of this will take place in industry (see
the case study below) and we will support
this through our targeted programmes for
industries and workers.

Case study: Industry action on reskilling for the transition
Centrica
Centrica have announced plans to hire 3,500 Smart Energy Apprentices
by 2030, with the first 1,000 apprentices recruited by the end of 2022.
Apprentices joining Centrica receive technical skills training and knowledge
for the job at the company’s academies in Dartford, Hamilton, Leicester,
and Thatcham. Many have taken up the opportunity to upskill at Centrica to
become domestic electrical installers, with skills in Electric Vehicle charging
point installation, or to achieve gas boiler service and repair capability.
Upskilling training for domestic electrical installers lasts 20 weeks and is
offered after Smart Energy Engineers have finished their apprenticeship. The
gas boiler service and repair programme also takes place after completing
the Smart Energy Apprenticeships, and is split over two years. Every year,
Centrica’s academies train and assess 5,000 engineers to keep all British
Gas engineers compliant with their specific roles’ regulatory and industry
requirements.

243

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
27. In key sectors, we will ramp up our
support to develop UK supply chains and
enable workers to access green jobs. This
will include working with industry on a Heat
Network Skills Programme to increase the
capacity and capability of the UK supply chain
to support the sector to reach its growth
potential. Our Public Sector Low Carbon Skills
Fund will enable public sector organisations
to acquire expert skills in order to unlock
decarbonisation projects. Alongside this, we
will work with industry to support training
and new routes of entry to help boost heat
pump installer numbers and other areas of
skills shortage to support the decarbonisation
of buildings. We will also support the
development of new green skills for hydrogen,
CCUS and industrial decarbonisation to
ensure the UK workforce is ready to deploy
low carbon technologies. Our funding for the
Aberdeen Energy Transition Zone will position
the region as an exemplar for low carbon
development, supporting the transition of
existing oil and gas skills to renewable energy
sectors. We also will continue to support the
forestry sector to improve its training and
career services.
28. Through the Lifetime Skills Guarantee,
we are supporting workers to gain the skills
they need to transition to the green economy,
including through targeted support for
retraining. As part of this, through the National
Skills Fund (NSF) investment we are delivering
Skills Bootcamps, which are short, flexible
courses covering digital, technical and green
skills. Green Skills Bootcamps are available in
areas such as housing retrofit, solar, nuclear
energy and vehicle electrification. Overall, we
expect there will be approximately 16,000
Skills Bootcamp places available across the
country in financial year 2021-22. We will
undertake robust evaluation of this exciting
training model to explore potential future
plans. In addition, our Free Courses for Jobs
offer has, since April 2021, been supporting
adults that do not have a qualification at
Level 332 or higher to access over 400 Level
3 courses for free. The offer currently includes
244

qualifications linked to green sectors such
as Agriculture, Building and Construction,
Engineering, Environmental Conservation,
Horticulture and Forestry and Science. An
estimated 11 million adults over the age of 24
in England are eligible for the Free Courses for
Jobs offer. We will continue working closely
with employers to understand where the offer
could be extended further to enable more
adults to access qualifications to give them
skills needed for the net zero transition.
29. This will be underpinned by the Lifelong
Loan Entitlement (LLE) from 2025, which will
provide individuals with a loan entitlement
equivalent to up to four years of post-18
education to use over their lifetime. As part
of the pathway towards the LLE, we will
trial short course provision at Levels 4-6 to
support in-work adults to upskill and retrain,
enabling learners to flexibly build towards a
full qualification in subjects crucial for net zero
including STEM and digital innovation.
30. Through the NSF we are also delivering
an Emerging Skills Project in electrification and
battery technology, which commenced in June
2021.Alongside this, our NSF funded In-Work
Skills Pilot, launched in September 2021, will
seek to respond to immediate skills shortages
required for net zero, stimulate demand for
short course provision at levels 4-5 across
STEM sectors, and boost worker’s career
and progression opportunities in key green
sectors, such as electrification in the auto
industry and low carbon engineering.

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy
31. Given the pace and the scale of the
transformation, we are considering how
government can work more closely with
sectors in the future to support them in the
green transition, and identifying where we can
adapt and enhance our support for people
at risk of redundancy to support a transition
to green jobs. This builds upon our existing
work coach interventions and targeted
provision including Sector-based Work
Academy Programmes (SWAPs), traineeships,
apprenticeships and other skills provision
which are ensuring jobseekers can develop
the right skills to move into green jobs.

Working with business to support
people from all backgrounds to have a
green career
32. We support the Green Jobs Taskforce’s
recommendation that industry should prioritise
ensuring that people from all backgrounds
can work in green jobs, building on existing
good practice and capitalising on the unique
opportunity of young people’s interest in
climate change and the environment. A
more diverse workforce will aid the transition
by expanding the talent pool, encouraging
new ways of thinking, enhancing innovation,
and boosting profitability and productivity
across the economy.33
33. To drive this important work forward we
will continue to encourage industry to ensure
there is equal opportunity for all to work in
the green economy, building on our support
for industry initiatives such as the POWERful
Women campaign and commitment under
the ‘Equal by 30 Campaign’ to close the
pay gap, improve female representation in
senior roles and opportunity for women in
the global clean energy sector by 2030.
Through the cross-cutting delivery group we
will explore what actions can be taken across
industry to improve diversity in the green
economy, including improving data collection
and transparency.

34. Alongside this, we will continue to work
with green employers to raise awareness
of the opportunities in the green economy
through an integrated careers information,
advice and guidance offer through schools,
colleges, universities, and employers to raise
awareness of different career pathways in low
carbon sectors.
35. To further break down perceived barriers
to working in the energy sector, boost diversity
and increase STEM skills, our Build Back
Better campaigns will seek to inspire people
from all walks of life to work in the green
economy, and raise awareness of green
education, training, and careers.
36. The UK’s joint presidency of COP26
brings a unique opportunity to showcase
green careers to a new generation of children
and young people. We are capitalising on
this by working with industry to launch the
Faces of The Energy Transition campaign
to showcase the inspiring people, projects
and organisations working to achieve the
clean energy transition, and supporting green
careers events at COP26 in Glasgow.

Building a foundation for future
green careers
37. Schools and colleges will play a vital role
delivering high-quality education and training
to equip young people with the knowledge
and skills required for the green economy. This
will help to grow the pipeline of skilled workers
needed to help deliver the net zero transition.
38. The science, geography and citizenship
programmes in the National Curriculum at
both primary (KS1-2) and secondary (KS3-4)
cover key content which supports knowledge
and understanding of sustainability and
climate change. An environmental science
A Level was introduced in 2017. Equipping
students with secure knowledge and skills in
STEM and other key subjects will be critical
in supporting them to progress to skilled jobs
in the green economy. We are, therefore,
supporting teachers to deliver high-quality
245

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
teaching in these subjects by creating a
world-class teacher development system that
builds from initial teacher training through to
early career support, specialisation and onto
school leadership. Our vision is that a golden
thread of training, support and professional
development - informed by high-quality
evidence - will run through each phase of
a teacher’s career. We are also funding
several initiatives to support subject-specific
professional development in STEM subjects
across all key stages. We are working with
Oak National Academy to give teachers
access to high-quality curriculum resources to
support their teaching, including in subjects
that cover sustainability and climate change.
We are also working with industry, through
programmes such as Tomorrow’s Engineers
Code, to showcase the diversity of roles
and people that make up the STEM sector,
encouraging more young people from different
backgrounds to choose a career in the sector.
39. We will build on this by bringing
forward a strategy which will set out how
our children’s services, education and skills
systems will support the UK to meet its net
zero target, become more resilient to climate
change and improve biodiversity. This will
include a focus on ensuring excellence in
education for a changing world, which will
prepare children and young people with the
knowledge and skills they need to contribute
to the green economy.
40. At post-16 level, we will continue to
build on our apprenticeship reforms, set out
in the Skills for Jobs White Paper, to align
the majority of post-16 technical education
and training with employer-led standards by
2030. A strengthened system of employer-led
standards, underpinning apprenticeships,
T-levels and new higher technical qualifications
will ensure employers, including in low carbon
sectors, have a central role in designing and
developing qualifications and training.

246

41. To ensure this system reflects the needs
of the green economy, the Institute for
Apprenticeships and Technical Education
(IfATE) has convened a Green Apprenticeships
Advisory Panel (GAAP) to work with
employers to align apprenticeships to net
zero objectives. Work is underway to map
existing apprenticeship standards against
green occupations and identify opportunities
to create new standards in areas including
retrofit, agri-tech and renewable energy
and the GAAP has endorsed existing
apprenticeships which support green career
pathways. We have already seen positive
engagement in the energy sector with over
1,000 apprenticeship starts in Wind Turbine
Maintenance and Operations Engineering
Technician standards in 2019/20. The GAAP
will build on this list into 2022, in line with the
Ten Point Plan and the findings of the Green
Jobs Taskforce. The work of the GAAP will
also support other key post-16 programmes
that are underpinned by the same standards
as apprenticeships (such as T levels and
higher technical qualifications) to align with the
needs of the green economy.
42. In 2021, we introduced the first
occupational traineeships, in collaboration
with sector bodies, to provide a clear, planned
transition to an apprenticeship at Level 2-3
for young people aged 16-24. Going forward,
we will consider the potential to develop and
introduce other occupational traineeships,
including in priority and green sectors
to ensure that young people secure the
jobs of the future.
43. We are continuing to roll out T Levels that
support green careers, providing high quality
technical qualifications as an alternative to A
Levels which are underpinned by the same
employer-led approach as apprenticeships.
The building services engineering for
construction T Level, launched in September
2021, will cover housing retrofit and heat
pump installation. From September 2022,
new T Levels will be available in Engineering,
Manufacturing, Processing and Control, with

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy
Agriculture, Land Management and Production
available by September 2023. IfATE is
exploring the suitability of potential future T
Levels and occupational specialisms, focusing
on areas to support green skills.
44. IfATE has introduced an approval process
for Higher Technical Qualifications (HTQs) at
Levels 4 and 5. HTQs will be rolled out for
teaching from September 2022, covering
eleven occupational routes - including
qualifications in digital, construction and
engineering – coming on stream up to 2025.
Future roll-out will continue supporting the
development of skills for the transition to net
zero as a key government priority. The goal is
to grow the number of learners undertaking
high-quality level 4 and 5 qualifications to
meet skills needs at this level. Earlier this year,
we launched an £18 million higher technical
education provider growth fund to allow
investment in new equipment that will support
providers to expand technical studies, and
boost local employer links. Our growth fund is
supporting 15 universities and 87 FE colleges
to teach HTQs from next year.

Next steps
46. The policies set out in this chapter
represent a first step in addressing the
challenges identified by the Green Jobs
Taskforce. We will progress further work
through the cross-cutting delivery group,
maintaining the momentum generated by the
Taskforce to drive action across the green
skills agenda. Working alongside industry,
we will continue to build the evidence on the
skills gaps which could hamper the net zero
transition if left unaddressed, assess how far
existing interventions are on course to address
those skills gaps, and where appropriate
identify further opportunities to flex key
skills programmes to support green sectors
and occupations.

45. Finally, our network of Institutes of
Technology (IoTs) across England are utilising
their state-of-the-art facilities to offer training
in green skills. This includes the East London
IoT which offers training in green and zero
carbon energy production, and the Greater
Birmingham and Solihull IoT which focuses
on sustainable engineering. The network is
supporting increased participation from underrepresented groups, including women, helping
to grow the pipeline of individuals with STEM
skills needed for green jobs. We are investing
£120 million in the second wave of IoTs, to be
up and running by 2022.

247

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

4iv. Embedding Net Zero
in Government
Climate considerations underpinning policy across Government
Our Key Commitments
•

Require the government to reflect environmental issues in national policy making
through consideration of five environmental principles.

•

Ensure that decisions taken on government spending are informed by their impact
on meeting net zero.

•

New measures to reduce emissions from Government’s £292 billion procurement
spending – and ensure suppliers have plans for achieving net zero on major
qualifying public contracts.

•

Continue to fund the Public Sector Decarbonisation Scheme at £475 million per
year to drive ambitious emissions reductions in schools, hospitals, and other public
buildings, whilst taking further action on skills, reporting, and targets.

•

Publish an annual progress update against a set of key indicators for achieving
our climate goals.

•

Expand climate change training to ensure the Civil Service has the skills and people
it needs to deliver net zero.

The challenge
1. Net zero is a complex and transformative
undertaking for the UK. The way the
government operates must rise to meet this
challenge. This means reducing the public
sector’s own carbon footprint – but also
changing how we are organised and how
we take decisions. Building on our recent
historic progress, we are now going further
to ensure the whole government meets the
challenge of net zero.

248

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy

Our goal
2. Since setting the net zero target, a huge
effort has taken place across government
to ensure we are set up in the right way
to deliver on our climate ambitions. We
have gone further than ever before to put
the climate at the heart of our decisionmaking. This includes:
•

Establishing two Cabinet Committees
dedicated to climate change;

•

Announcing as part of the Integrated
Review of Security, Defence, Development
and Foreign Policy that tackling
climate change and biodiversity loss
will be the Government‘s number one
international priority;

•

Using the Environment Bill to require
the government to reflect environmental
considerations in national policy
making through consideration of five
environmental principles;

•

Taking new approaches to embed net zero
in spending decisions;

•

Establishing the No.10 Delivery Unit to
ensure the government maintains a sharp
focus on delivering the country’s key
priorities. One of the four priorities for this
Unit is the delivery of net zero; and,

•

Setting out in collaboration with key net
zero delivery departments, a high level
strategy for delivering on the UK’s net
zero commitments through the BEIS
Outcome Delivery Plan 2021-2022. This
plan identified key programmes critical to
delivery and set out an evaluation plan to
monitor and assess progress.

3. These efforts put climate change at the
heart of our decision-making and have led
to the ambitious announcements set out
in recent years: the Prime Minister’s Ten
Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution,
dedicated strategies for key sectors of the
economy, and this Net Zero Strategy; and set
us up to deliver on those commitments.
4. Our goal is to go even further to embed net
zero across government activity. This will mean
that government takes net zero into account
when taking decisions, public sector buildings
will emit less carbon, our procurement
decisions will lead to greener supply chains,
and civil servants across government will have
the skills they need to deliver this mission.
5. To do this we must understand the
interactions between climate change and
other UK priorities. The measures set out in
this chapter are crucial for ensuring that the
UK takes a whole system approach to tackling
climate change:
•

Multiple forums – including Cabinet
Committees – that bring together different
perspectives on net zero and its interaction
with other priorities;

•

Delivering climate skills and training across
the Civil Service – not just to civil servants
working directly on climate issues;

•

Close working relationships with
local government and the Devolved
Administrations; and,

•

Embedding net zero in a wider range of
decision-making levers.

249

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Net zero in government decision-making
6. In the last two years the Government has
made commitments to strengthen governance
around net zero. Two Cabinet committees
were established in 2020 to rationalise climate
governance and put net zero at the heart of
government decision-making. This is driven
by the Prime Minister, who chairs the Climate
Action Strategy Committee (CAS). This
Committee considers matters relating to the
delivery of the UK’s domestic and international
climate strategy. In addition, the Climate
Action Implementation Committee (CAI) which
is chaired by the COP President Designate. It
considers the delivery of COP 26, net zero and
building the UK’s resilience to climate impacts.
These committees’ ability to scrutinise
progress and take whole system decisions
will be strengthened by the new measures
described in this chapter.
7. These committees are supported by
well-established and robust governance at
official level. This includes a cross-government
Director General group that was established
in 2019 to ensure a whole-of-government
approach to climate policy, with oversight
at the most senior levels. Chaired by the
BEIS Director General for Net Zero and
International, this group brings together
officials from across government, creating
a whole system perspective, to support the
delivery of significant climate announcements,
including those contained in this Strategy.

250

Consistency of approach
across the UK
8. To reach net zero we must take a UKwide approach. The UK Government and the
Devolved Administrations are committed to
working together to deliver coordinated policy
action to meet respective emissions reduction
targets across the UK. Combined, Scotland,
Wales and Northern Ireland produced 22%
of UK emissions in 2019,34 and accounted
for 16% of the UK’s population, 13% of
economic activity35 and nearly half of the UK’s
land area (46%).36 Powers and policies to
deliver ambitious emissions reductions in the
Devolved Administrations Scotland, Wales and
Northern Ireland are partly reserved to the UK
Government and partly devolved.
9. The UK Government and the Devolved
Administrations have established governance
arrangements to ensure a joined-up and
collaborative approach to climate change.
At the bimonthly Net Zero, Energy and
Climate Change Inter-Ministerial Group, UK
Government ministers meet with Devolved
Administration counterparts to discuss
emerging policies that will contribute to
delivery of net zero targets across the UK,
such as delivering a UK-wide Emissions
Trading Scheme, and the level of the sixth
carbon budget which was set in law in
June 2021. The Group is supported by the
official-level Net Zero Nations Board on
alternate months.

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy

Embedding net zero in
government decisions
10. Climate change is a major issue for
all governments in the 21st century. Our
mission to reduce emissions, seize economic
opportunities, and adapt to extreme weather
events will affect many more of the decisions
that the Government takes than it would have
done in previous decades. To that end, it is
essential that we put in place new levers to
ensure that all the Government’s decisions
adequately take climate change into account.
This Strategy sets out key measures we will
take to ensure a climate-focus on key future
decisions made by the government.
11. We are using the Environment Bill
to require the government to reflect
environmental issues such as climate
change in national policy-making through
consideration of five environmental principles:
•

The integration principle is the principle
which states that policy-makers
should look for opportunities to embed
environmental protection in other
fields of policy that have impacts on
the environment.

•

The prevention principle means that
government policy should aim to prevent,
reduce or mitigate harm.

•

The rectification at source principle
means that if damage to the environment
cannot be prevented it should be
tackled at its origin.

•

The polluter pays principle is the principle
that those who cause pollution or damage
to the environment should be responsible
for mitigation or compensation.

•

The precautionary principle states that
where there are threats of serious or
irreversible environmental damage,
a lack of scientific certainty shall not
be used as a reason for postponing
cost-effective measures to prevent
environmental degradation.

12. The duty to consider these principles
should be applied in the early stages of policy
development and considered throughout.
In doing so, the extent to which a policy
will contribute to climate change should
be considered alongside other impacts of
the policy on the environment. Net zero will
therefore be facilitated by the principles where
they are applied to relevant decisions.
13. The integration principle will create
a prompt for policy makers to embed
environmental protection in policy making,
triggering consideration of the government’s
priorities for environmental protection (such as
net zero) and whether these priorities can be
supported through the new policy. The polluter
pays and prevention principles could also
help to contribute to net zero targets, through
encouraging policies that reduce carbon
emissions and prevent adverse impacts on
climate where possible. These principles will
ensure the environment is at the heart of
policymaking across government.
14. Ensuring spending decisions contribute
to net zero is a major priority for HM Treasury.
The Green Book already mandates the
consideration of climate and environmental
impacts in spending. It has been updated
so that policies must be developed and
assessed against how well they deliver on
the Government’s long-term policy aims
such as net zero.
15. Spending reviews are critical moments
for the Government to look strategically at
the country’s priorities and make spending
decisions based on these. At Spending
Review 2020 (SR20), guidance required
departments to state the greenhouse gas
emissions of bids, and their impact on meeting
Carbon Budgets and net zero. Allocations
to departments were informed by this
information, and £12 billion was committed
to green measures. We have reviewed the
learning from this exercise to further embed
climate change in spending decisions in the
next spending review and in the long term.
251

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
16. In September 2021, the Government
published updated guidance on how impacts
on greenhouse gas emissions should be
measured in policy decisions. As a result,
departments must place a significantly higher
value on emissions in determining policy, as
the values now fully reflect the UK’s increased
ambitions on climate. This complements wider
considerations on natural capital impacts in
policy decisions – and represents a significant
step forward in incorporating environmental
impacts into policy development.
17. As set out in the Green Investment
chapter, we have also taken steps to ensure
net zero is embedded in government funding
and regulation of the financial system. Arm’slength bodies, such as the British Business
Bank, have adopted net zero as a core
objective. This will expand the flow of finance
to those innovative firms that will help us
reduce our energy consumption and mitigate
the impacts of climate change.
18. This builds on important announcements
in the 2021 Budget, particularly the new
UK Infrastructure Bank that will use its £22
billion of financial capacity to crowd-in private
investment to support economic growth,
accelerate our progress to net zero, and help
level up the UK. One of the Bank’s objectives
is to help the UK transition to net zero
emissions by 2050.
19. We will make sure that the reformed
planning system supports our efforts to
combat climate change and help bring
greenhouse gas emissions to net zero by
2050. For example, as part of our programme
of planning reform we intend to review the
National Planning Policy Framework to make
sure it contributes to climate change mitigation
and adaptation as fully as possible.

252

Supporting UK businesses
20. We are considering net zero through our
support to business too across government
activity. Innovate UK is the UK’s Innovation
Agency, it drives productivity and economic
growth by supporting UK businesses to
commercialise new ideas and address the big
societal challenges facing the UK today.
21. As the UK moves to a net zero economy,
Innovate UK is supporting businesses to
exploit new ideas, develop supply chains, and
thrive in growing global markets. Last year
Innovate UK committed to spend £276 million
with UK businesses to tackle net zero.

Net zero in the work of regulators
22. Many of the UK’s regulators will play a
role in facilitating delivery of the infrastructure,
technologies and activities that will deliver
the net zero transition. Several examples are
set out in the sector focused chapters in this
strategy. The government is also considering
whether and how the functions of those
regulators most important to the transition can
be strengthened.
23. For example, to provide strategic
guidance to Ofgem on the government’s
energy policy, the Energy White Paper
committed the government to consulting
on an energy sector strategy and policy
statement (SPS) for Ofgem during 2021. The
SPS will set out the strategic priorities and
policy outcomes of the government’s energy
policy, with net zero as the driving theme.
This will impose a legal obligation on Ofgem
to have regard to the strategic priorities and
policy outcomes when exercising its regulatory
functions. To provide clear legal accountability,
Ofgem will be required to report on how it
intends to implement the SPS at the outset,
and then report annually on its performance
and its plans for the coming year.

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy
24. The Competition and Markets Authority
(CMA) is reviewing how the UK can better
use the tools available under competition and
consumer law to achieve net zero and our
sustainability goals. The CMA will provide this
advice in early 2022. This follows recent CMA
work on misleading environmental claims,
its market study into electric vehicles and its
publication of information to businesses on
sustainability agreements.
25. The National Infrastructure Strategy
committed to taking a long-term approach to
investment for the benefit of both investors
and consumers, responding to the findings
of the National Infrastructure Commission’s
report on the future of economic regulation
in key infrastructure. The government also
committed to publishing an overarching
policy paper in 2021. The policy paper will
set out next steps on key issues including:
the consideration of duties in the round to
ensure they reflect new challenges such as

achieving net zero, promoting coherence, and
supporting a transparent strategic framework;
and the exploring of the merits of a crosssector-strategic Policy Statement to provide
clarity on government’s overarching strategic
vision for the regulated sectors.
26. In addition, the Government has recently
consulted on proposals for reforming the UK’s
regulatory framework. When the consultation
response is published, it will include the
Government’s decisions on how regulators
can be encouraged to consider themes
such as competition, innovation and net zero
in their regulatory activities. For example,
the consultation sought views on whether
regulators might be granted more flexibility
by government to choose how they intervene
in their sectors, to allow more agile, smarter
regulation. The Government would like to
see a consistent approach taken across the
various regulated sectors and will set out more
thinking on this in due course.

Demonstrating progress towards net zero
Increasing transparency of progress
27. Every year the government
comprehensively reports the UK’s historic
emissions since 1990 and publishes
projections of future emissions.37 The UK’s
‘Energy and Emissions Projections’ is a worldleading approach to projecting the UK’s annual
emissions, by sector, according to United
Nations Framework Convention on Climate
Change guidelines.
28. We are now going further to clearly
demonstrate the tangible milestones that the
UK will have to reach to achieve net zero, and
to communicate and invite scrutiny on this
progress to the public.

29. It is critical for public and industry
confidence that the UK has a clear plan
for achieving net zero – and that we are
transparent about how this plan progresses
and changes over time. The Journey to Net
Zero chapter of this Strategy report set out
a delivery pathway: an indicative trajectory
of emissions reductions based on potential
in each sector of the economy, which
keeps us on track to meet the sixth carbon
budget ending in 2037. Sector chapters set
out policies and proposals in line with this
indicative pathway to ensure we are on track
for net zero. While it is impossible to predict
every path to net zero, this pathway sets out
the decisive action we know is needed and
acts as the best plan we have to measure
progress against.

253

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
30. We are therefore committing to provide
a public update every year on progress
in the previous year against the delivery
pathway to net zero set out in this Strategy.
This will include:
•

An update on progress against the targets
and ambitions set out in this Strategy (see
Table A), building on this list over time
to incorporate additional Government
targets and wider non-Government
indicators of progress;

•

Commentary on contextual changes that
might affect the exact pathway to meeting
decarbonisation commitments; and,

•

A summary of key areas of progress made
against this pathway the policies and
proposals in this strategy.

The following targets and ambitions will form part of the Government’s annual update on
progress towards net zero:
Power

By 2035 all our electricity will come from low carbon sources subject to
security of supply.
40GW of offshore wind by 2030, including 1GW floating wind.

Industry

Ambition to deliver 6 MtCO2 per year of industrial CCUS by 2030, and 9
MtCO2 by 2035.

Fuel supply and hydrogen

5GW of low carbon hydrogen production capacity by 2030.
Achieve a final decision on whether to enable blending up to 20%
hydrogen by volume into the Great Britain gas network by 2023, subject to
successful completion of safety trials.
The offshore oil and gas sector to have an absolute reduction in
production emissions of 10% by 2025, 25% by 2027, and 50% by 2030
on the pathway to net zero by 2050.38

Heat and buildings

Aim to reduce direct emissions from public sector buildings by 75% by
2037 compared to 2017.
Achieve a minimum market capacity of 600,000 heat pumps per year by
2028.
As many homes to reach EPC Band C as possible by 2035, where
practical, cost effective, and affordable.
As many fuel poor homes as reasonably practicable to Band C by 2030.

254

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy

Transport

Double cycling from 2013 to 2025.39
Increase walking activity by 2025.40
Deliver 4,000 new zero emission buses and the infrastructure needed to
support them.
25% of the government car fleet ultra low emission by December 2022
and 100% of the government car and van fleet zero emission by 2027.
100% of new cars and vans sold are zero emission by 2035.
100% of new HGV sold are zero emission.
100% of new buses/coaches sold are zero emission.
Maximise GHG savings from low carbon fuel use in transport by increasing
the Renewable Transport Fuel Obligation main obligation from 9.6% in
2021 to 14.6% in 2032.

Natural resources, waste, and
F-gases

Restore at least 35,000 ha of peatlands in England by 2025 and
approximately 280,000 hectares of peat in England by 2050.
Increase tree planting rates from 13,660 hectares across the UK in 2020
to 30,000 hectares each year by the end of this Parliament.
Deliver the UN Sustainable Development Goal 12.3 to halve food waste by
2030.
Explore policies to work towards the near elimination of biodegradable
municipal waste to landfill by 2028.
Meet the Kigali Amendment target of reducing HFC consumption by 85%
by 2036, as well as the F-gas Regulation’s target of a 79% reduction by
2030.

Greenhouse gas removals

At least 5 MtCO2/yr of engineered removals by 2030.

31. We will publish an updated
Net Zero Strategy when we set the
next Carbon Budget.

Strengthening delivery oversight of
net zero projects and programmes
32. Significant recent steps have been taken
to oversee the delivery of key projects and
programmes that will contribute to net zero.
This year, the Prime Minister established the
No. 10 Delivery Unit to ensure the government
maintains a sharp focus on delivering the
country’s key priorities. One of the four
priorities for this Unit is the delivery of net zero.
BEIS in parallel has developed a new model
for monitoring net zero delivery and reporting
on programme and project-level risks –
ensuring decision makers get early visibility

of common issues and inter-dependencies
across all programmes delivering net zero.
This will enable them to make informed, timely
decisions to enable us to stay on track to
meeting net zero.
33. This complements work led by the
Infrastructure and Projects Authority (IPA).
The IPA is the government’s centre of
expertise for infrastructure and major projects,
supporting the successful delivery of all types
of major projects. The IPA sits at the heart of
government, reporting to the Cabinet Office
and HM Treasury. The Project Outcome Profile
Tool launched in July 2021, ensures that
projects and programmes are clearly linked
to government priorities (such as net zero)
from the outset and support their delivery. Its
assurance toolkit has recently been updated
255

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
to include key tests and key questions on
the environment, climate adaptation, and
net zero, in the Government’s gateway
process. Through the IPA’s Transforming

Infrastructure Performance: Roadmap to
2030, it is driving the use of whole life carbon
reporting to reduce embodied carbon in the
built environment.

Government leading by example
Decarbonising the public sector
34. Government and the wider public sector
will lead by example during the transition to
net zero. As well as ensuring that net zero
is reflected in our structures and practices,
we will continue to take ambitious action to
reduce public sector emissions, showing
leadership to the wider economy, and making
a direct contribution to reaching net zero.
35. Direct emissions from public sector
buildings account for around 2% of total UK
emissions, and the public sector has reduced
its emissions by around 40% since 1990.41
36. We intend to act in three areas to
ensure we are on track to achieve net zero:
investment, transparency, and capacity and
capability, and in doing so will aim to reduce
direct emissions from public sector buildings
by 75% against a 2017 baseline, by the end of
Carbon Budget 6.

Investment
37. Reducing direct emissions from public
sector buildings requires investment in
measures to reduce fossil fuel use, including
the installation of low carbon heating
and complementary energy efficiency
improvements, and the installation of low
carbon electricity systems such as rooftop
solar PV. The Public Sector Decarbonisation
Scheme is providing over £1 billion in grants
over 2020/21 and 2021/22 for public sector
bodies to fund heat decarbonisation and
energy efficiency measures.

256

38. Building on the success of the Public
Sector Decarbonisation Scheme, we will
continue and extend the scheme to ensure
that public sector bodies have access to
finance to continue decarbonising their
estates , investing a further £1425 million over
2022/23 to 2024/25.

High standards with transparency
39. Public sector organisations should
be taking steps to achieve net zero now
should report their progress so they can be
held accountable and as publicly funded
organisations. Government departments
and their arm’s length bodies already set
and report against targets to reduce their
greenhouse gas emissions in Greening
Government Commitments. The updated
Greening Government Commitments
framework for 2021-25 will ensure the public
estate continues to reduce its environmental
footprint, align with commitments in our 25
Year Environment Plan and be consistent with
a trajectory to achieving net zero greenhouse
gas emissions by 2050.
40. All public sector bodies should now
be monitoring their energy use and have
targets to reduce emissions, particularly, to
reduce the direct emissions for which they
are responsible. To ensure we are on track
to reach net zero, emissions from the public
sector should be reported and monitored on a
consistent and coherent basis. We will provide
guidance to make clear the government’s
expectations in this regard.

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy
41. We will also legislate to enable us
to require the reporting of public sector
emissions on a consistent and coherent
basis if this is not done on a voluntary basis,
and, if insufficient progress is made on
reducing emissions in the public sector, to
require that all public sector organisations
are working toward and reporting against
a legally-binding target to reduce their
greenhouse gas emissions.

Capacity and capability
42. Reducing emissions requires specialist
skills and expertise, as well as funding. Action
at an unprecedented scale is required to
reduce emissions from public sector estates
in line with net zero, and organisations need
the right skills and structures to deliver on this.
We will continue to work with partners across
government and the wider public sector to
understand these needs, and provide the
support needed to address them.

Delivering net zero through public
procurement
43. The Government is determined to
leverage public procurement to help achieve
net zero. We will use our buying power to
drive decarbonisation and to create the policy
tools and training to enable public procurers to
grasp this opportunity.
44. Clearly establishing the strategic
importance of net zero at project design stage,
as described above, will mean that it is easier
to draw through this ‘golden thread’ when
reaching procurement stage. The government
has recently announced three distinct new
policies that can all help public procurers fully
embed net zero into their work. These all kick
in at different stages of the commercial cycle,
complementing each other in terms of their
scope and their reach.

45. The National Procurement Policy
Statement (NPPS), published in June
2021, sets out clear principles that
contracting authorities should be following
organisationally. Tackling climate change
and achieving net zero is one of the key
considerations established – this should then
be woven through individual procurements
(for qualifying procurements).
46. The Procurement Policy Note on Taking
account of carbon reduction plans in the
procurement of major government contracts
comes into effect from Autumn 2021. This
will impact over £50 billion of procurement
spend. For qualifying contracts, it requires
suppliers who are bidding on central
government contracts (over £5 million p/a
in value) to commit to achieving net zero by
2050 and to detail their organisation’s UK
greenhouse gas emissions via the publication
of a Carbon Reduction Plan. Failure to do
so may mean exclusion at supplier selection
stage. Government will continue to take action
to reduce emissions, and this policy is an
important step in ensuring our supply chain is
sharing this ambition and taking similar steps
to reduce their emissions.
47. The Social Value Model requires
government to expressly evaluate
environmental, social and economic
benefits, with these factors comprising a
minimum of 10% of the evaluation score for
qualifying procurements.42
48. Throughout the development of these
policy measures, government has been
working with departments, suppliers and
industry bodies to raise awareness of how
environmental considerations can be brought
into the commercial process, and to build
capability in understanding and assessing
suppliers’ commitments. Several thousand
buyers across government have completed
Social Value training to develop the skills
required to embed environmental policy
outcomes and improve the sustainability of
government contracts. We will continue to
257

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
support the adoption and implementation
of environmental policy measures to deliver
the best commercial and environmental
impact for the UK.
49. These measures provide a platform for
even stronger action. We have embarked
upon a programme of major domestic
procurement reform. This will enable us to
use flexibilities provided by our departure from
the EU to give even greater consideration
to environmental factors in our decision
making. One specific example is the proposal
to break the subject matter of contract link
so that a company’s wider environmental
proposals for the project can be factored into
procurement decisions.
50. Domestically we also want to make it
easier for procurers to balance carbon against
cost. We want to underpin our net zero target
and COP26 ambitions by developing tools to
help us decarbonise the government’s supply
chains and stimulate innovation and growth in
the UK’s green economy. This work also takes
into account the Climate Change Committee’s
(CCC) call for credible, quantifiable pathways
for sectoral decarbonisation. We will also
explore the possibility of establishing a new
single unit for all sustainable procurement
policy within government to strengthen
performance, coordination, and oversight.

51. Our ambition is necessarily high – we are
changing the expectations on ourselves when
it comes to utilising £292 billion of annual
procurement spend. In doing so we are also
sending a clear signal to the market: data on
carbon impact, and immediate ambition to
reduce it, will be increasingly important in how
we choose to do business with you.

Showing leadership on domestic and
international standards
52. The BSI, in its role as the UK’s national
standards body, works across the sectors
and topics that will be critical in achieving net
zero, including greenhouse gas management,
energy transition, biodiversity and sustainable
finance. This work is helping the UK to take
a global leadership role in net zero and
influence change on a global scale. To this
effect BSI and the International Organization
Standardization have developed the London
Declaration – a commitment to actively
consider climate change in the development
and revision of all international standards and
to facilitate the involvement of civil society and
those most vulnerable to climate change.
53. Through BSI’s international reach, the
UK will be able to help stakeholders reach
consensus in international climate change
standards and lead change globally in
support of net zero.

Ensuring the right skills and talent in government
54. The government has established the
Government Skills and Curriculum Unit
(GSCU) to oversee the delivery of better
training, knowledge and networks that the
over 440,000 people working in the Civil
Service will need today and in the future.
55. Net zero will continue to be a priority
for the government until 2050 and beyond.
To that end, BEIS and GCSU are reviewing
the skills, training and networks that civil

258

servants need to lead the UK’s future efforts to
decarbonise (see infographic below).
56. We are expanding the curriculum for civil
servants to include specific training on climate
change. We are also establishing climate
specific training within the Civil Service Fast
Stream curriculum.
57. We have also embedded climate
considerations in the Policy Profession
Standards, the competency framework that
supports professional development for all civil

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy
servants developing policy. For the first time,
this makes explicit that good policymaking
requires an awareness of the potential for all
policy areas to contribute or undermine our
climate goals.

58. We are establishing a new climate focus
within the Civil Service Fast Stream Generalist
Scheme, which will focus on providing relevant
skills and opportunities to some of the future
leaders of the Civil Service.

Ambition for climate capabilities across Government
Technical specialists:
• Specialist and world-leading
expertise in commercial, project
delivery, climate science, law, and
innovation.

All leaders in Government:
• Can challenge established truths
about the interaction between climate
and other policy priorities
• Can communicate the whole system
interactions between climate and all
policy activity.

Everyone working on climate
change:
• Advanced understanding of UK
and international climate policy
framework
• Able to understand, foresee, and
manage the interaction between
climate and other policy goals

Essential capabilities for every Civil
Servant, this will vary by profession,
e.g. everyone developing policy:
• Understands the potential of policy
areas to support or undermine UK
climate objectives (for example
net zero by 2050)
• Understands where to seek further
advice on these interactions

259

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

4v. Local Climate Action
Supporting decarbonisation and regeneration in our local areas
and communities
Key Commitments
•

Set clearer expectations on how central and local government interact in the
delivery of net zero.

•

Build on existing engagement with local actors by establishing a Local Net Zero
Forum to bring together national and local government senior officials on a regular
basis to discuss policy and delivery options on net zero.

•

Continue the Local Net Zero Programme to support all local areas with their
capability and capacity to meet net zero. This includes provisions to:

260

•

Continue the Local Net Zero Hubs (previously known as the local energy hubs)
to support all areas of England to reach net zero, including those lacking
capacity and capability, or those facing unique challenges.

•

Promote best practice and support local authorities to develop net zero projects
that can attract commercial investment.

•

Increase knowledge sharing to demonstrate and share successful net zero
system solutions.

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy

The challenge
1. Devolved and local government play an
essential role in meeting national net zero
ambitions. Across the UK many places have
already made great strides towards our net
zero future, having set their own targets and
strategies for meeting local net zero goals.
Taking a place-based approach to net zero
is also vital to ensuring that the opportunities
from the transition support the government’s
levelling up agenda.
2. The combination of devolved, local, and
regional authorities’ legal powers, assets,
access to targeted funding, local knowledge,
and relationships with stakeholders enables
them to drive local progress towards net
zero. Not only does local government drive
action directly, but it also plays a key role in
communicating with, and inspiring action
by, local businesses, communities, and civil
society. Of all UK emissions, 82% are within
the scope of influence of local authorities.43
3. Local leaders are well placed to engage
with all parts of their communities and to
understand local policy, political, social, and
economic nuances relevant to climate action.
The government currently works with the Core
Cities Group, for instance, which undertakes a
range of activities to promote climate change
adaptation, raise awareness and foster
leadership in cities. Local government decides
how best to serve communities and is best
placed to integrate activity on the ground so
that action on climate change also delivers
wider benefits – for fuel poor households, for
the local economy, for the environment and
biodiversity, as well as the provision of green
jobs and skills.

4. Despite the excellent work already
underway, we understand that there remain
significant barriers to maximising placebased delivery on net zero. We know that
some places are moving faster than others
and that places and communities will face
different challenges when meeting net zero
commitments and adapting to climate change.
5. There are significant regional variations in
the level of emissions (see Figure 29 below)
and some of the hardest hit local economies
that face multiple development and growth
challenges are proportionally home to a
greater number of lower skilled workers. Many
of these areas are also where high-carbon
industries are located.

261

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Figure 29: Net emissions of carbon dioxide per capita by Local Authority
(tonnes CO2e per capita) in 2019

Source: ONS

6. We also recognise that certain types
of communities, such as rural and coastal
communities, face significant and unique
challenges. For example, the increased age
of rural housing makes it both more difficult
and expensive to introduce energy efficiency
measures and rural communities also have
greater reliance on cars. Similarly coastal
communities face significant challenges as
they may be vulnerable to more frequent

262

flooding, rises in sea level, and accelerated
coastal erosion which will have the potential
to affect public services and infrastructure.
However different types of localities may also
have opportunities available to them that do
not exist everywhere. For instance, coastal
communities may be able to utilise tidal
energy or industrial scale water source heat
pumps, and rural areas may have access to
sustainable biomass.

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy
7. There are currently no net zero statutory
targets on local authorities or communities
in the UK, and we do not believe that a new
general statutory requirement is needed.
This is because of the existing level of local
commitment with the sector, and because
it is difficult to create a uniform requirement
that reflects the diversity of barriers and
opportunities local places experience.
However, we do understand that there is
a real need to ensure local leaders across
the board are supported by enhancing the
capacity and capability of local areas to deliver
net zero, coordinating engagement with local
authorities, and clarifying expectations at a
national level to accelerate local progress
towards net zero.

8. Central and local government will need
to work closely together to deliver net zero
and our interim carbon budgets. Government
analysis suggests that over 30% of the
emissions reductions needed across all
sectors to deliver on our Carbon Budget 6
target, as set out in this strategy, rely on local
authority involvement to some degree.44

Our goal
9. The government will continue to set UKwide priorities for meeting carbon budgets
and for assessing how each sector will help
meet those budgets. Local government has
a key role in integrating delivery at a local and
regional level to deliver more cost-effective
routes to net zero and derive local co-benefits
that embed climate action in the heart of local
places and services. By taking this approach,
we can achieve even more for net zero and
for the economy locally and nationally; we
recognise that a one-size-fits-all approach will
not work. We want to build strong partnership
working between central, devolved, and local
government, increase the co-ordination and
better support all levels of government to
utilise the influences available to them.
10. We want to continue to empower our
local leaders to take the actions which
will lead to the biggest gains in emissions
reduction, including the potential opportunities
in building back greener and meeting our
ambitions to level up the country. While the
COVID-19 pandemic has severely impacted
our communities, it has also reshaped how we
think about place, community, and our natural
and built environment.

11. Community empowerment, engagement,
and action can play a role in supporting
the UK’s transition to net zero and enable
communities to access the benefits that it
brings, from greener jobs to improved health.
Communities are especially well placed to
help raise awareness and engage people in
adopting net zero behaviours. For example,
community ownership of renewables and
other assets, often in partnership with other
organisations, can be an important driver of
reducing local emissions. It can also enable
people to learn more about climate change
and build sustainable behaviours.
12. We will continue to provide support for
public and private investment opportunities in
local places that will enable the local delivery
of emissions savings across the sectors. In
the sector chapters we have shown the range
of programmes from building retrofit, heating,
electric vehicle charging and many others
where funding will go to local government to
deliver action in their communities.

263

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Enabling local areas to deliver net zero
13. To support all local government
in developing and delivering their net
zero delivery plans, we need to act in
three key areas:

build on many of the existing ways of working
together to provide more consistency and
clarity over roles and responsibilities between
national and local government.

a. Setting clearer expectations for local
places, clarifying how the partnership
with local government should work,
and considering how action at national,
regional, local, and community levels fits
together to tackle the emission and climate
risk challenges we face, and the wider
benefits the transition brings.

15. We will do this by establishing a Local Net
Zero Forum to ensure that there is direct input
from local leaders. Chaired by BEIS, the Forum
will be cross departmental and bring together
national and local government senior officials
on a regular basis to discuss policy and
delivery options on net zero. The forum will
build on our current engagement mechanisms
through the representative bodies such as
the Local Government Association (LGA),
Association for Public Service Excellence
(APSE), Core Cities and the Association of
Directors of Environment, Economy, Planning
& Transport (ADEPT). The creation of the
Forum also draws on the recommendations
for a policy framework put forward by member
network UK100. The Forum will support the
establishment of clearer delivery roles for local
government and provide a single engagement
route into HM Government in a coordinated
and coherent way.

b. Providing resources for local places to
deliver stronger contributions to national
net zero targets, across dedicated funding
streams for net zero and non-ringfenced
funding, noting the number of broader
priorities on which local government
needs to deliver.
c. Building capacity and capability at the
local level to support ambition and share
best practice, while also providing support
in areas that may not have made as much
progress to date.
14. To act effectively across these areas,
and for local government to translate national
goals into local action, we will build on our
existing engagement to improve the way local
and national government collaborate on net
zero. The Department for Business, Energy
and Industrial Strategy (BEIS) will take overall
responsibility for improving coordination with
local government and other local actors on
the effective design and delivery of local net
zero policies, as part of the Department’s
overall responsibility and wider leadership on
delivering net zero. Other departments will
continue to lead on their specific policy areas
such as Department for Transport on the
decarbonisation of transport. We intend to

264

16. On adaptation, local actors will be
supported through increased Environment
Bill powers to take effective action, reduced
financial burdens from waste management
and stronger abilities to improve health and
social outcomes for local citizens.
17. Achieving our aims requires
national decision makers to have the
right knowledge and awareness to
understand the local impacts of decisions.
BEIS will work with other departments and
stakeholders to demonstrate successful net
zero system solutions by creating a network of
experience that amalgamates learning through
case studies and non-spatial planning tools.

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy
18. We have already developed a Carbon
Literacy toolkit for the delivery of Carbon
Literacy training for local authorities. This
training has been made available to all local
authority staff and aims to increase awareness
and ability to reduce emissions across all the
policies and programmes local government
work on. BEIS has created a sector course
and places like Manchester and Sheffield are
among the early adopters who have trained
staff and councillors.

Funding
19. Funding for local climate action comes
from a combination of the Local Government
Finance Settlement, other government
grants and support schemes, borrowing,
and private finance. Collectively, this means
there is a range of funding available for local
authorities to act on climate change. Some
have chosen to explore community bonds
and crowdfunding. A third of local authorities
say their climate change plans will be costneutral by incorporating goals into existing
service area strategies, drawing on the funding
available for those services.

20. An important part of the funding
landscape is the diverse range of grant
funding schemes provided by HM
Government to support local delivery.
The recent National Audit Office (NAO)
review into local government and net zero
identified 22 dedicated grant schemes
for net zero work from central to local
government. We recognise that longer term
and more co-ordinated funding streams can
enhance innovation and investment, reduce
bureaucracy, and encourage more efficient
and integrated decision making. We will
explore how we could simplify and consolidate
funds which target net zero initiatives at
the local level where this provides the best
approach to tackling climate change. Building
on the vision in the Prime Minister’s Ten Point
Plan, we also will work across departments
to explore how we can give certainty to
investment in longer-term programmes
supported by regeneration initiatives.
21. In addition to the above, the UK
Infrastructure Bank (UKIB) will lend to local
authorities for strategic and high value projects
and invest in projects alongside the private
sector, crowding in private sector capital.
It has twin objectives of helping to tackle
climate change, particularly meeting the UK’s
net zero emissions targets and helping to
support regional and local economic growth
across the UK. The UKIB will offer loans to
local authorities for high value and strategic
projects of at least £5 million. To complement
this investment activity, over time, the UKIB
will develop an expert advisory service to
help local authorities develop and finance
projects. The UKIB will build partnerships
across the UK including with government
departments, government sponsored bodies,
local authorities and relevant representative
organisations to foster collaboration and
drive value for money. As it engages with the
market, the UKIB will continue to learn and
adapt, which will ensure that its loans to local
authorities are as effective as possible.

265

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
22. The UKIB is currently operating in an
interim form, as it expands its capability
and capacity. It will continue to refine the
Local Authority Lending Function over
the coming months.
23. The Department for Business, Energy and
Industrial Strategy will continue to work with
partners and the finance sector to develop
new finance and business models to support
local delivery. These business models will look
to develop aggregated projects and portfolios
of projects building up scale and spreading
delivery risk more effectively for investors.

Sectoral priorities at a local level
24. We understand that for local areas to
deliver net zero they will need specific support
to plan and identify priorities across different
sectors of the economy.

Local energy
25. Decarbonisation of our buildings,
transport systems and energy system will
require significant action at a regional and local
level. Generation and storage are becoming
increasingly decentralised, with solar and
batteries being deployed in buildings, vehicles,
and local communities. Heat and transport
decarbonisation in particular needs to be
delivered in a way that meets local needs and
with the involvement of local decision makers.
Decarbonisation will require strong coordination across electricity, heat, hydrogen,
transport, and buildings. That means local
actors can be strong drivers of change,
enabling coordinated non-spatial planning and
engagement with markets, and supporting
cleaner, cheaper and more efficient energy
whilst providing a significant contribution
towards local economic strategy.

266

26. Better engagement and information
sharing across organisations can enable better
forward-planning and a more coordinated
approach. BEIS has work underway with
Ofgem to develop a better understanding of
the opportunities and challenges presented
by local area energy mapping and planning
(LAEMP) and are considering the most
appropriate policy options to take forward.
This work could help to bring together key
local stakeholders to explore the impact of
decarbonisation choices across sectors and
how different technology options may impact
on local energy networks.
27. The Government has committed up to
£102.5 million of funding through the Industrial
Strategy Challenge Fund to Prospering from
the Energy Revolution. This is an innovation
programme which develops smart local energy
systems to provide investable, scalable local
business models and finance mechanisms
using integrated approaches to deliver cleaner,
cheaper energy services. The programme is
supporting three places to demonstrate the
use of this framework today and a further ten
places to develop detailed plans and business
cases to deliver whole place decarbonisation.
28. The programme is designed to work
across a range of different areas including,
big urban conglomerations, cities, towns,
industrial regions, regeneration projects and
rural communities. Each of these face different
challenges and opportunities in reaching net
zero and the programme seeks to identify
the economic as well as the social and
environmental benefits of delivering integrated
Smart Local Energy Systems, not just for the
place but also nationally.

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy
29. The government also provides funding
to deliver programmes that support
decarbonisation through the Local Net Zero
Programme (previously known as the Local
Energy Programme), which is supporting
Local Enterprise Partnerships (LEPs), local
authorities, and communities in England to
play a leading role in decarbonisation and
clean growth. Almost £22 million has been
invested in the Local Energy programme to
date, including funding for the creation and
continuing support of 5 Local Net Zero Hubs.
The Hubs promote best practice and support
local authorities to develop net zero projects
that can attract commercial investment. The
Hubs are currently supporting local authorities
to develop projects with a potential capital
value of over £2 billion and have identified
further possible projects that take the potential
capital value of the pipeline to over £3 billion.

Heat and buildings
30. Local Authorities have been, and will
continue to be, key delivery partners when it
comes to improving the housing and building
stock across the country, especially through
integrating activity on energy efficiency,
heating and retrofit. This has been recognised
in recent years through their delivery of Green
Home Grants, Home Upgrade Grant, and
heat networks. As demonstrated in previous
chapters (Heat and Buildings), local delivery
of these schemes has been integral in
reducing carbon emissions and supporting
local economies. For example, over 200 local
authorities have taken part in phase 1 of the
Green Home Grants Local Authority Delivery
Scheme (LAD) which is focussed on lowincome households in homes that most need
energy efficiency upgrades. Phases 1 and 2
of the Local Authority Delivery schemes aim
to support around 50,000 households who
will benefit from energy efficiency upgrades,
making it easier and cheaper to heat their
homes. Government has also delivered the
Public Sector Decarbonisation scheme which
provides grants for public sector bodies
to fund heat decarbonisation and energy

efficiency measures. Under Phase 1 of the
scheme, over £500 million was awarded to
local authorities.
31. National planning policies already
recognise the importance of sustainable
development and make clear that reducing
carbon emissions should be considered in
planning and decision making. The National
Model Design Code provides tools and
guidance for local planning authorities to help
ensure developments respond to the impacts
of climate change, are energy efficient,
embed circular economy principles, and
reduce carbon emissions. The government
is considering how the planning system can
further support our commitment to reaching
net zero. We will make sure that the reformed
planning system supports our efforts to
combat climate change and help bring
greenhouse gas emissions to net zero by
2050. For example, as part of our programme
of planning reform we intend to review the
National Planning Policy Framework to make
sure it contributes to climate change mitigation
and adaptation as fully as possible.

Local transport
32. To decarbonise the transport sector, in
July, the government published its Transport
Decarbonisation Plan, which sets out the
commitments and the actions needed to
decarbonise the entire UK transport system.
One of the six strategic priorities of the plan
is developing solutions that consider the
needs of different locations, highlighting the
importance of tackling emissions at a local
level to ensure that every place in the UK has
its own net zero transport network by 2050,
serving the unique needs of its communities.

267

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
33. To support this, we will reform the way
local transport infrastructure is funded to drive
decarbonisation at a local level, engaging
local areas about their investment priorities
in the round, and making quantifiable carbon
reductions a fundamental part of local
transport planning. Later this year we will also
publish a Local Authority Toolkit to help local
authorities reduce emissions from transport. It
will provide local authorities with guidance and
information to help them build business cases,
develop innovative policies, secure funding,
and deliver measures on the ground.

Local green infrastructure and the
environment
34. Government will launch a new National
Framework of Green Infrastructure Standards
in 2022. This will support local areas and
regions to deliver well-designed green
infrastructure where it is most needed to
deliver multiple benefits. These networks
of green and blue spaces and other
natural features, including trees, provide
an opportunity to benefit local economies
and bring about long-term improvements in
people’s health and wellbeing. At the same
time, it can help us to mitigate and adapt
to climate change, through capturing and
storing carbon, shading and cooling, and
reducing flooding.

268

35. The Environment Bill is also creating a
new system of spatial strategies called Local
Nature Recovery Strategies to target action for
nature and to drive the use of nature-based
solutions to tackle environmental challenges
like climate change. It is expected that
there will be approximately 50 Local Nature
Recovery Strategies covering the whole
of England with no gaps and no overlaps.
Preparation of each Strategy will be locally
led and collaborative, with local government
taking a critical role. This will provide local
government with a new tool through which
they can work with local partners to identify
where effort to create or restore habitat would
have greatest benefit for climate mitigation,
whilst also having positive benefits for nature
and the wider environment. Between 2021
and 2027, we will be doubling our overall
investment in flooding and coastal erosion
to £5.2 billion.
36. In addition, £200 million will be invested
in the Innovative Flood and Coastal Resilience
Innovation Programme. This will help over
25 local areas over six years to take forward
wider innovative actions that improve their
resilience to flooding and coastal erosion.
The Environment Agency is also working with
coastal authorities on a £1 million refresh of
Shoreline Management Plans.

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy

A universal offer to harness opportunities across the UK
37. We are committed to supporting all local
areas and communities, ensuring that none
are left behind and creating net zero solutions
which work for all of them. As we are reducing
emissions across the economy, we must
also ensure that the transition to net zero
is a fair one.
38. As outlined above, BEIS has been
successfully running the Local Programme
(previously known as the Local Energy
Programme) to support all local areas
capability and capacity to meet net zero and
government has committed to continuing the
Programme. The programme has developed
over time and now takes a place-based

approach to tackling net zero in the round,
covering all net zero issues. The programme
will continue to help places make faster
progress towards net zero, improve costeffectiveness, and significantly increase the
economic benefits of the green industrial
revolution by attracting commercial investment
and supporting green jobs.
39. The programme will focus on all areas of
England, including those lacking capacity and
capability, or those facing unique challenges,
such as rural and coastal communities. The
programme will ensure that all local areas can
engage on issues relating to net zero.

Case study: Investing in industrial heartlands
The government has invested £95 million for two new offshore wind ports to
be constructed in the Humber region and Teesside, boosting the UK’s worldleading industry, and creating thousands of new jobs in the North.
Able Marine Energy Park, on the South Bank of the River Humber, will
receive up to £75 million government investment, and Teesworks Offshore
Manufacturing Centre, on the River Tees, will benefit from up to £20
million. Construction will begin later this year to upgrade the two ports
with new infrastructure - helping to revitalise these historic industrial
heartlands. Together these new ports will have the capacity to house up to
7 manufacturers to support the development of the next-generation offshore
wind projects, boosting the UK’s offshore wind manufacturing base while
directly creating up to 3,600 new green jobs.
40. The Government has embedded a net
zero principle in initiatives which target different
types of places, such as the Levelling Up
Fund, the Towns Fund, and the Community
Renewal Fund. This is to ensure that all funded
schemes have considered how to align with
our net zero ambitions. We will continue
to monitor the impacts of these schemes

and strengthen these criteria if necessary.
We will take the same approach with other
new schemes and priority places such as
Freeports. Investment into places through the
UK Shared Prosperity Fund should also align
with the government’s net zero objectives.

269

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
41. This year we are working with local
businesses on the future role of Local
Enterprise Partnerships (LEPs), ensuring
local businesses continue to have clear
representation and support in their area to
drive the green recovery from the COVID-19
pandemic. LEPs have played a significant
role in providing advice and incentives for
businesses to reach net zero. As part of the
LEP review, we are committed to ensuring
a strong local business voice is retained,
particularly to support businesses to
transition to net zero.

42. In England, the government works
closely with local government, and Defra
hosts the Local Adaptation Advisory Panel
(LAAP), a forum for dialogue on climate
change adaptation between local authorities,
central government, and delivery bodies.
This supported the production of a guide on
adaptation for local government, published
in 2019 by the Association of Directors
of Environment, Economy, Planning and
Transport (ADEPT).

Case study: the Green Recovery Challenge Fund
The government’s £80 million Green Recovery Challenge Fund is kickstarting
over 150 nature projects across England. For example, the Wildfowl and
Wetlands Trust was awarded £1.58 million to create and restore 130 hectares
of nature-rich wetland habitat along the Somerset coast. This habitat will help
increase flood resilience, improve soil, water quality, and help absorb carbon,
increasing the robustness of the county’s coastline overall. The GRCF is also
support green jobs and is currently on track to support up to 2,000 jobs by
the end of 2021, rising to up to 2,500 by the time all projects are completed in
March 2023.
Working with local communities
43. To ensure that all parts of the UK benefit
from the transition to net zero we also want
local communities to take bold action that
supports the transition. Local communities
benefit from strong relationships and ties to
their areas and their local authorities; these
can be key to reducing emissions across
the economy and making sure people
stay engaged in the process. Where local
authorities and communities work together
effectively, we have already seen significant
improvements in both delivery and in wider
public engagement.

270

44. Some very ambitious campaigns on
food, recycling, water, and other areas critical
to climate action, have been launched and
run by pioneering local communities and
activists. Community projects can also act as
a catalyst for raising public awareness and
promoting green choices.
45. Community groups can bring together
people, finance, and ideas to have a real
impact on the behaviours, infrastructure, and
attitudes locally. Community cohesion and
grassroots initiatives are also central to locally
based resilience to climate change risks, such
as flooding and heatwaves.

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy
46. Government understands the important
role that communities have in the transition
to net zero. Through the introduction of
UK-wide growth funding schemes, such as
the Community Renewal Fund, the Levelling
Up Fund, and the Towns Fund, Government
is enabling local areas to tackle net zero
goals in ways that best suit their needs. For
example, under the Towns Fund, Clay Cross

in Northeast Derbyshire developed a Town
Investment Plan setting out their low carbon
energy ambitions. Government also works
with community groups, both geographic
and communities of interest, such as sports
clubs, faith groups, and youth groups,
on key behaviour change strategies and
communications.

Case study: Clay Cross
Clay Cross, in Northeast Derbyshire, was one of the 101 Towns invited to
develop a Town Investment Plan. The plan, submitted to Government in
October 2020, set out their ambition to establish the town as an exemplar
at the forefront of the low carbon revolution. This involved working with
established local businesses, including the key local employer Worcester
Bosch, to deliver innovation in clean energy and showing the potential to
deliver a net zero economy. By 2030 they hope to be able to show significant
reductions in the overall levels of emissions by ensuring clean growth
principles underpin investment. These ambitions will be realised through a
cohort of projects which include the development of a low carbon energy
strategy for the town, a low carbon energy demonstrator project linked to
the rebuilding of the local leisure centre, low carbon workspace and housing
proposals, and a skills and enterprise training centre, which will have an
emphasis on providing energy industry related skills.
Community Energy
47. Community Energy is an example of how
communities can come together to reach local
and national net zero targets. Community
Energy England’s 2021 State of the Sector
Report outlined that there are 424 community
energy organisations working across the
UK to deliver a net zero future and with the
appropriate support, they estimate that the
community energy sector could contribute
up to 5,270 MW, power 2.2 million homes,
support 8,700 jobs and add £1.8 billion to the
economy each year.45

48. Government has provided support to
community energy projects through the Rural
Community Energy Fund (RCEF), a £10 million
fund to supporting community-run projects in
England that benefit the energy transition to
net zero. The fund has provided development
stage grants to projects focusing on a variety
of technologies including solar, wind, low
carbon heating and electric vehicle charging.
Communities have predominantly financed
their schemes commercially through share
offers and borrowing.

271

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
49. The Government has also supported
Community Energy England to develop and
maintain their knowledge sharing role which
includes peer mentoring. This resource
can help communities develop their own
schemes across heat and power generation,
transport, energy efficiency, and also wider
approaches to net zero.

Case Study: Cuckmere Community Solar – a world first
Cuckmere Community Solar has an ambition to power the rail network in East
Sussex with solar energy – a world first. Working in collaboration with Riding
Sunbeams, an innovator focused on decarbonising rail networks, the
organisation aims to establish a template for similar projects.
Cuckmere Community Solar plans to build a new 4 MW solar farm at Berwick,
East Sussex. This will enable the local community to benefit from a higher
income from renewable energy generation, and for the rail network to benefit
from cheaper, low carbon power. The Rural Community Energy Fund has
provided grant funding for the development stage of the project which
includes the cost of studies, land agreements, investigation of the connection
point, and legal work.
The project has also recently received capital funding support from the South
East Local Enterprise Partnership‘s £85 million share of the government’s
Getting Building Fund, which aims to help economic recovery.
50. Ofgem also supports community
energy projects and following a consultation
process has announced that from February
2022 it plans to welcome applications from
community interest groups, co-operative
societies, and community benefit societies to
the Industry Voluntary Redress Scheme. This
will allow groups to apply for funds to deliver
energy related projects that support energy
consumers in vulnerable situations, support
decarbonisation, and will benefit people in
England, Scotland, and Wales.

272

51. To build on our existing actions, we intend
to continue to work closely with Community
Energy England and will reintroduce the
Community Energy Contact Group. Since
2017, this group has been merged in a wider
Local Energy Contact Group, but given the
scale and pace of work being taken forward,
and with the development of the Local Net
Zero Forum, we believe that it makes sense
to strengthen our engagement with the
community sector further by reintroducing
a dedicated forum for community groups to
engage across Government.

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy

4vi. Empowering the Public and
Business to Make Green Choices
Moving towards a net zero society together
Our Key Commitments
•

Explore how to improve and enhance public facing climate content and advice on
gov.uk. We will also enhance our digitally-led Simple Energy Advice (SEA) service to
provide homeowners with personal, tailored advice on improving and decarbonising
their homes, including tailored retrofit advice in local areas, and links to local,
accredited, trusted installers.

•

Continue supporting UK businesses to meet their net zero commitments, including
exploring a government-led advice service that consolidates and simplifies advice
and other support on net zero.

•

Increase awareness of net zero and empower businesses and the public to make
green choices, by building on government communications and engagement, and
exploring providing environmental impact labelling of products, goods, and services.

•

Make green choices affordable and easy by working with businesses and industry
to set strong regulatory signals and collaborating to reduce costs and provide better
quality, longer lasting and lower environmental impact products, and services.

273

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

The challenge

Our Goal

1. Together we are moving towards a net
zero society, led by technological innovation.
We will see transformations to our economy,
society, and the way we live and work: new
low carbon technologies, infrastructure
and job opportunities; cleaner air, greener
spaces and reduced flooding; and changes
to everyday life such as in the way we travel,
heat our homes and save our money. To reach
net zero, everyone will need to play their part.
We know that public concern about climate
change is high – with 80% in the UK either
concerned or very concerned.46 We also know
that people and businesses recognise that
change must happen – 80% of respondents
in a recent survey believe the way we live our
lives will need to change to address climate
change.47 Equally, however we know that the
public is unsure of what net zero will mean in
practice, what steps they can take, or they
face barriers that stop them from acting.48
This chapter sets out how government will
support individuals and businesses to make
green choices – an act of choosing the more,
or most, sustainable option from a range of
possibilities, such as using an electric vehicle
instead of a petrol or diesel vehicle when it is
time to change your family car, replacing an
old gas boiler with a heat pump, or switching
to innovative green financial products.

2. Our goal is to make the act of choosing
green significantly easier, clearer and cheaper.
We recognise that the best way to do this
is to go with the grain of existing behaviour
and trends and by working closely with
partners like Local Authorities, voluntary sector
organisations, social enterprise regulators, and
businesses, who all play an important role in
how we use and choose different services.

274

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy

The role of green choices in meeting net zero
3. There are numerous individual actions –
some one-off and some we take regularly
– that people can take to contribute to our
pathway to net zero. These individual actions
combine to create wider systemic change
required to meet net zero. New analysis on
green choices,49 has helped us to identify
choices and behaviours that impact on net
zero, broadly falling into three categories:
•

Adopting new low carbon
technologies, such as switching to zero
emission vehicles.

•

Using energy, technologies, or services
more efficiently, such as using smart
meter-enabled ‘time of use’ tariffs which
reward consumers financially for using
energy at off-peak times, or when there is
excess clean energy available.

•

Everyday business and consumer
choices, such as choosing green financial
products like the recently launched NS&I
Green Savings Bond, or seeking more
responsibly invested pension schemes.

4. We want to better understand the
behavioural factors that need to be considered
in the policies required to meet net zero.
The Government Chief Scientific Adviser
and Government Office for Science will be
producing a scenario-based foresight report
to understand the system wide implications of
these factors, to be published in 2022.

275

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Our approach for supporting green choices
5. We know that people want to play their
part in achieving net zero. Our approach for
how government will empower everyone to
make green choices is underpinned by six
principles.50 Although they were developed
with the public in mind, many of them equally
apply to green choices taken by businesses,
particularly medium or small enterprises. The
principles reflects wider public engagement
from across the country and Parliament.
6. Public engagement, including through
communications campaigns such as Together
for Our Planet, plays a significant role in
driving green choices. We will deliver public
engagement on net zero to:

276

a. Communicate a vision of a net zero 2050,
build a sense of collective action, improve
understanding of the role different actors
play in reaching net zero, and how and
when choices can be made;
b. Ensure there is trusted advice and
support for people and businesses to
make green choices;
c. Mobilise a range of actors and
stakeholders to increase and amplify their
communication and action on net zero and
green choices; and
d. Give people opportunities to participate in
and shape our plans for reaching net zero,
thereby improving policy design, buy-in
and uptake of policies.

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy

Principles underpinning green public and business choices
Principle 1: Minimise the ‘ask’ by
sending clear regulatory signals

Principle 2: Make the green choice
the easiest

7. By targeting measures at an industry level,
rather than at the individual consumer, we
can make green choices much simpler for the
consumer. This will also help grow a stronger
market for low carbon goods and give
businesses clear, early signals. For example,
the 2030 phase out date for petrol and diesel
cars and vans sends a signal to industry and
will improve the availability and quality of zero
emission vehicles on the market. Similarly,
as set out in the Heat and Buildings Strategy
there are a range of policies we will introduce
that will bolster the low carbon heating market,
creating new opportunities for business, and
better choice for the consumer.

9. By addressing all the major, practical
barriers to individual behaviours we can make
it easier for people to make green choices. We
will ensure that we take a consumer‑centred
approach to net zero policy design, removing
frictions and minimising disruptions to
people’s lives.

8. We are taking action to ensure that
products are more sustainable, both in relation
to their energy efficiency during use and
use of materials over their lifetime (resource
efficiency) through developing proposals for
new regulatory product standards and better
consumer information. We are exploring
updating and expanding ‘Ecodesign’ product
regulation which sets minimum requirements
to phase out the least energy and resource
efficient products from the market.

10. In our Transport Decarbonisation Plan, we
have committed to better integrating transport
modes, with more bus routes serving railway
stations and improved integration of cycling
and walking networks, so that opting to
make a green travel choice is easier. This
is in addition to delivering interventions to
enable more people to walk and cycle for
short journeys such as a national e-cycle
support programme. Our vision is that half of
all journeys in towns and cities will be cycled
or walked by 2030. We are also committed to
increasing road vehicle occupancy. This will
help decarbonise and decongest our roads.
We will publish guidance for local authorities
on support for shared car ownership and
shared occupancy schemes and services and
are continuing to build our evidence base to
understand the barriers and potential policies
to increase the uptake of shared mobility.
11. We are committed to removing
inconvenience and increasing availability of
green choices. Following the commitments
made in our Resources and Waste Strategy,
the Environment Bill will introduce powers that
will allow us to require separate food waste
collections in all local authorities in England,
which will help people to reduce emissions
from food waste with ease.

277

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Principle 3: Make the green choice
affordable
12. We are already seeing the upfront cost of
green choices, such as electric vehicles, drop.
We are looking across all sectors to see how
we can continue this trend and make green
choices more affordable.
13. Through the Smart Export Guarantee
(SEG) energy suppliers are moving to
increasingly innovative tariffs which support
electric vehicle deployment while continuing
to enable households to access a market-led
route for exporting and receiving payment for
their unused electricity. As committed to in
our Heat and Buildings Strategy, the Boiler
Upgrade Scheme will provide grants to help
households transition to low carbon heating.
We are also supporting motorists through
plug-in vehicle grants, which provide support
towards the upfront purchase of eligible cars,
vans, motorcycles, and trucks.
14. We are supporting the public to both save
and contribute towards public spending that
helps the UK reduce its emissions through
the NS&I Green Savings Bond. The Green
Finance Institute and Abundance Investment,
supported by UK100, Local Partnerships
and Innovate UK, have also launched a
national campaign to help local authorities
issue a type of municipal finance investment
– Local Climate Bonds. For citizens, the Local
Climate Bond provides a low-risk and fixed
return investment, and a way to mobilise
their savings to help tackle the climate
change in their area.

Principle 4: Empower people
and businesses to make their
own choice.
15. Consumer preference can shape
producers’ decisions, but sometimes
consumers and businesses lack clear
information to make informed choices. As
announced by the chancellor in his Mansion
House speech in July 2021, we will work with
the Financial Conduct Authority to introduce a
sustainable investment label - a quality stamp
- so that consumers and retail investors can
clearly compare the impacts and sustainability
of their investments for the first time.
We plan to help empower people to make
informed choices about the goods and
products they buy and services they use by
exploring how we better label these with their
emission intensity and environmental impact.
We are also exploring the use of product
labelling to show the durability, repairability
and recyclability of products, as well as
their environmental footprint with a view to
stimulating demand for better quality items.
We continue to explore the evidence base for
environmental labelling within food production
and disposal, including the most accurate
methodologies to monitor and verify the
carbon emissions, and environmental impact,
of food items.
16. Our Transport Decarbonisation Plan
outlines how we will explore the feasibility of
a travel reward scheme that uses peer-driven
motivation and encourages individuals to
switch to, or continue to use, sustainable
modes of travel.
17. We are providing tailored advice and
support to homeowners on what they can do
to improve their homes. Our Simple Energy
Advice service has already had over 1.5
million users, providing homeowners with
personal, tailored advice for improving and
decarbonising their homes and links to local,
accredited, trusted installers. Homeowners
can also find out about government schemes

278

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy
for which they may be eligible. We will
enhance the digitally led service and are
considering options to support tailored retrofit
advice in local areas, supported by tailored
local advice. This includes moving our Simple
Energy Advice service to gov.uk, which will
improve user experience, and supporting local
advice provision.
18. We are also reviewing other existing digital
information and advice services related to
net zero and exploring how to improve wider
existing public-facing net zero content and
advice on gov.uk

19. We know that technologies can also
improve public understanding of energy use
and energy efficiency. In-Home Displays for
smart meters give accurate information about
energy consumption to help households
easily understand how to use less energy and
save money on their bills. Building on this,
the Smart Energy Savings initiative is trialling
how innovative products and services can use
smart meter data to provide consumers with
advice on how to manage their energy use. At
the end of June 2021, there were 25.2 million
smart and advanced meters in homes and
small businesses across Great Britain.51

279

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Principle 5: Motivate & build public
acceptability for major changes
20. Achieving our net zero target must be
a shared endeavour. It is therefore vital that
we listen to the publics views on how to
reach net zero. We already regularly invite the
public to shape policies on net zero through
consultations and deliberative dialogues. Since
2019, we have run, funded, or are still running
deliberative dialogues on a range of net
zero issues, such as green choices, homes,
heating, transport decarbonisation, green
savings, hydrogen, food, Carbon Capture Use
and Storage (CCUS) and Advanced Nuclear
Technologies (ANT).
21. To ensure that the transition to net zero
is fair and affordable, and does not negatively
impact disadvantaged groups, we are
committed to assessing the impact of our net
zero policies. We consult on policy changes
and we will continue to make it easier for
people and businesses, including those who
are most marginalised, to feed into key policy
decisions on net zero.

280

22. The Devolved Administrations have a
range of initiatives aimed at engaging and
motivating the public around net zero and
climate action:
a. The Scottish Government launched a draft
Public Engagement Strategy for Climate
Change in December 2020, and the final
report of Scotland’s Climate Assembly was
laid in Scottish Parliament in June 2021.
b. The Welsh Government Engagement
Approach for Low Carbon Delivery Plan 2
was published in June 2021, encouraging
collective action on climate change
through four Calls to Action.
c. In March 2021, the Northern Ireland
Executive unveiled a new digital climate
action campaign, delivered by MyNI in the
run up to the COP26 conference. It aims
to raise climate awareness, encourage
change, enable action, and exemplify
climate leadership.

Principle 6: Present a clear vision
of how we will get to net zero
and what the role of people and
business will be

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy

The role of business in
delivering net zero
Businesses have significant power to drive
change towards achieving our domestic
net zero goal. Our approach to supporting
businesses to deliver this change will need to
be differentiated by business size and sector,
as these factors will influence the ease with
which a net zero target and other relevant
actions can be adopted. We have seen
significant numbers of companies signing up
to science based targets alongside sectorspecific ambition being put forward already.
For example, Water UK has launched the
world’s first sector-wide plan to deliver net
zero carbon emissions by 2030.
We know that businesses account for 18% of
UK territorial emissions and so encouraging
them to take action to reduce their emissions
is important.52 But just as vital is the role
businesses are playing in designing the
ground-breaking new technologies, world
leading products and innovative approaches
that we need to develop the low carbon
economy and enable others to reach net
zero. Collaboration across sectors and value
chains will enable us to innovate faster,
create stronger incentives for investment and
drive down costs for low carbon alternatives
through the global mechanisms laid out in the
Paris Agreement.

To underline the importance of this area,
the Prime Minister appointed a net zero
Business Champion, Andrew Griffith MP, to
spearhead business engagement nationwide
in the year to COP26. Already over half of
the FTSE100 companies have committed
to Science-Based Targets by joining the
global Race to Zero campaign. Alongside
engaging large corporates, the Net Zero
Business Champion has led a campaign
targeting small and micro businesses across
the UK. Over 1,900 have joined the Race to
Zero to date by visiting the Business Climate
Hub, developed in partnership with a global
business coalition led by the International
Chambers of commerce. Companies,
particularly large businesses, once they
have joined the Race to Zero, should work
with others to drive breakthroughs in their
sectors, regions, and support SMEs in
their value chains to take action. We’re
encouraging Business Representative
Organisations (BROs) to become Race to
Zero Accelerators by recruiting members into
the Race to Zero. To be recognised officially
as an Accelerator, businesses must recruit at
least 20% of members not already in Race
to Zero by COP26.
Many businesses across the UK have said
they want to tackle climate change, but that
they don’t know where to start53. Through the
small business campaign, government has
taken an important step towards making net
zero relevant to SMEs by helping them access
the support they need. Beyond COP26 we
will continue to support UK businesses to
meet their net zero commitments, including
exploring a government-led digital advice
service that consolidates and simplifies advice,
funding, and other support on net zero.

281

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
For larger businesses, we want to ensure
businesses are aware of their energy and
carbon use so they can take action towards
reaching net zero. Climate risks must be
assessed and disclosed through the Task
Force on Climate-related Finance Disclosures
(TCFD). This is complemented by Streamlined
Energy and Carbon Reporting, which requires
energy and emissions reporting in all UK large
businesses to improve awareness of energy
costs. We also require large businesses and
their corporate groups to carry out a broader
assessment of their energy use from buildings,
transport and industrial processes every 4
years under the Energy Savings Opportunity
Scheme (ESOS), which is designed to identify
practicable and cost-effective energy saving
opportunities. In the future building users and
decision makers will be able to compare the
performance of their buildings to other similar
buildings using a performance-based energy
rating to support targeted investments.
Government will work in partnership not just
with businesses themselves, BROs, sectorbased trade associations, business groups
in the Devolved Administrations and local
and regional organisations to translate the
pathways within this strategy into business
specific plans to reach net zero.

282

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy
23. Supporting people to make green choices
will be a collective effort between government,
businesses, voluntary sector, social enterprise
and community groups, local authorities,
media organisations and others. However, we
know that others look to Government to set
the narrative on how we should get to net zero
and what people’s role will be.
24. We will build on government
communications and engagement on net
zero to increase awareness of how we plan to
deliver the net zero target in the UK. Building
on the momentum of COP26, the Together
for our Planet campaign is showcasing how
people across the UK are going “One Step
Greener” to tackle climate change - from the
engineers working on the offshore wind farms
now powering our homes and businesses,
to local initiatives encouraging children and
parents to walk to school. The campaign
demonstrates that taking a single step can
have a positive impact on the environment,
using the inspiring stories of 26 One Step
Greener Ambassadors who are playing their
part for the planet - be it by walking to work,
repairing their clothes, or reducing their food
waste - to encourage others to join them. The

‘One Step Greener’ Ambassadors come from
all walks of life in their pursuit of a greener
future and demonstrate how going one
green step can culminate in a large collective
impact in helping to make the UK a more
sustainable place.
25. We will build on the success of Together
for Our Planet, through which the UK business
community is demonstrating global leadership
in efforts to combat climate change, with over
1,900 SMEs signed up to reach net zero by
2050. Up and down the country, local high
street shops are proudly displaying their
climate leadership by sharing their net zero
journey on social media. Examples include
Caribe Coffee, a family run coffee business
in Northumbria, John Sankey, a sustainable
furniture maker in Derbyshire, and SilverHare,
a jewellery maker in West Cornwall. In doing
so, they are acting as changemakers in
their local communities. The focus of the
campaign in the run-up to COP26 has
been on encouraging business to make net
zero pledges. After COP26, we commit to
continuing to support businesses to meet
their commitments whilst developing their
climate resilience.

283

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

4vii. International Leadership and
Collaboration
Accelerating the global transition to a resilient net zero future
Our Key Commitments
•

Increase global climate action through our push for global net zero, including our
COP26 Presidency objective to keep 1.5˚C within reach. As part of this, strengthen
international collaboration in key sectors including by working with others to
accelerate the innovation and deployment of clean technology and continue to
convene the Zero Emission Vehicle Transition Council, the Energy Transition Council,
the FACT dialogue, and other flagship initiatives that will be announced at COP26.

•

Deliver against net zero on a trajectory in line with the Paris Agreement,
decreasing UK emissions by at least 68% by 2030 as set out in our
Nationally Determined Contribution,54 78% by 2035 compared to 1990 levels
in line with our Sixth Carbon Budget.

•

Double our International Climate Finance to at least £11.6 billion between 2021 and
2025 to support net zero support adaptation and build resilience internationally.
Within this, invest at least £3 billion in solutions that protect and restore nature,
and £200 million at a minimum to help countries access technical exprtise to limit
emissions and build back greener.

•

Drive international innovation in key low carbon technologies through Mission
Innovation, including co-leading the Green Powered Future and Clean
Hydrogen Missions.

•

Lead by example internationally on inclusive climate policies, Action for Climate
Empowerment and support for the UNFCCC Gender Action Plan.

•

Set out a clear vision and priorities to guide UK international climate and nature
action in the coming decade through a 2030 Strategic Framework, and publish
a refreshed Export Strategy outlining HMG support for exporters in the low
carbon economy.

284

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy

The challenge
1. Meeting our shared objective of avoiding
dangerous climate change requires a
dramatic, global acceleration of progress
towards net zero CO2 emissions by midcentury and net zero greenhouse gas
emissions (GHG) by around 2070.55 Over
2020-21 there has been considerable
progress, with all G7 countries, over half of
the G20, and around 75% of global emissions
now covered by net zero targets. However,
the world is still not on track to reach the
Paris Agreement temperature goal, which
aims to limit global warming to well below
2°C and pursue efforts to limit warming to
1.5°C, compared to pre-industrial levels.
More must be done to turn these targets into
immediate action.

2. UK emissions account for about 1% of
the global total.56 To accelerate progress
towards a resilient net zero future, we need to
play a prominent role in promoting collective
global action, working together to ensure
the transition is quicker, cheaper, and easier
for all building on a strong foundation of
domestic action.
3. The transition to net zero must be
supported by a joined-up approach to halting
biodiversity loss. The two are inextricably
linked: the greatest drivers of biodiversity
loss, land use change and agriculture are
also responsible for approximately one fifth
of global GHG emissions. Simultaneously,
climate change itself is a direct driver of
biodiversity loss, and terrestrial and marine
ecosystems act as carbon sinks for humandriven CO2 emissions.57

Our goal
4. As set out in the Integrated Review of
Security, Defence, Development and Foreign
Policy (the Integrated Review), tackling climate
change and biodiversity loss is the number
one international priority for the UK for the
coming decade.58
5. As the world recovers from the COVID-19
pandemic our actions must be aligned with
the Paris Agreement to ensure a fair and
inclusive ransition to net zero. This includes
enhancing adaptive capacity, strengthening
resilience, and reducing vulnerability to
climate change.
6. The international emissions reductions
required to keep 1.5 degrees warming within
reach are only achievable if the international
community works together. And by working
together, we can create stronger incentives
for investment, we can innovate faster, we
can achieve economies of scale more quickly

and we can create level playing fields. This
international collaboration will make the
transition to net zero cheaper, faster, and
more accessible for all countries. This is not a
matter of shouldering a burden between us,
but of sharing an opportunity. It will support
the UK’s own transition and stimulate UK
jobs and prosperity.59 Over the past decade
alone, we have seen over an 80% drop
in the costs of clean energy technologies
thanks to technology innovation, learningby-doing, and greater deployment at scale
domestically and globally.60
7. Collaboration across borders and
society is a key aim for our COP26 and G7
Presidencies. Beyond these, we will continue
to advocate for enhanced international
collaboration, and coordinate action across
science, innovation, finance, and trade.

285

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Delivering our Paris Agreement commitments
Mitigation

International Climate Finance (ICF)

8. Parties to the Paris Agreement shall
communicate ambitious short-term targets
to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
through Nationally Determined Contributions
(NDCs) and should strive to underpin these
targets with credible pathways set out in Long
Term Strategies (LTSs).

10. The UK’s ICF helps over 100 developing
countries mitigate and adapt to the impacts
of climate change. This includes supporting
countries’ resilience to the damaging effects
of climate change, accelerating the clean
energy transition, supporting low carbon
infrastructure, and investing in climate change
solutions that protect and restore nature
and biodiversity.

9. The UK’s NDC commits us to reducing our
economy-wide GHG emissions by at least
68% by 2030, compared to 1990 levels.61 This
strategy sets out the UK’s plans to deliver on
the NDC and reach net zero by 2050 and will
be submitted to the UNFCCC as our revised
LTS under the Paris Agreement.

11. The UK has committed to doubling
our ICF to at least £11.6 billion between
2021‑2025, including at least £3 billion for
nature and biodiversity.62 This forms part of an
ambition by developed countries to mobilise
$100 billion in climate finance annually.
We have also committed to aligning all UK
Official Development Assistance (ODA) with
the Paris Agreement and ensuring that all
new UK bilateral aid spending does no harm
to nature. This delivers on our Integrated
Review objective of investing in a naturepositive economy.

2021 cumulative UK ICF Achieved results
(2011-2021, last year’s in brackets)

88 million

people supported to cope with
the effects of climate change
(66 million)

2,400 MW

capacity of clean
energy installed
(2,000 MW)

Source: BEIS analysis (2021)

286

41 million

people improved access
to clean energy
(33 million)

£5.2 billion

public finance mobilised
for climate change
(£4.1 billion)

180 million

people avoided or reduced tonnes
of greenhouse gas emissions
(31 million)

£3.3 billion

private finance mobilised
for climate change
(£2.2 billion)

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy
12. UK ICF is stimulating a shift in private
finance mobilisation for climate action from
the billions to the trillions. Between 2011
and 2021, UK ICF mobilised £3.3 billion of
private finance for climate change purposes in
developing countries.63 We target investment
in dveloping economies with the highest
potential to accelerate the global transition to
net zero, ensuring that everyone can share the
opportunities of clean growth sooner.
13. We support the work of key multilateral
funds and have significant bilateral
programming drawing on UK experience
and expertise, enabled by the diplomatic
work of our climate, energy and environment

attaché network embedded in UK Embassies
and High Commissions. UK Partnering for
Accelerated Climate Transitions (UK PACT) is
supporting developing countries with potential
for high emissions reductions to build the
knowledge and expertise required to both
develop and implement the ambitious plans
needed to limit emissions and realise the
opportunities of clean growth.
14. For all new and existing International
Climate Finance programmes, we will ask
delivery and monitoring partners to include
analysis of the impacts of programmes on
certain groups of people to manage any
negative impacts.64

Case study: UK-Colombia Partnership for Sustainable Growth
Through our Partnership for Sustainable Growth, the UK is working with
Colombia to help drive real world emissions reductions and global climate
ambition. The partnership and UK programmes are supporting Colombia
to reduce deforestation, accelerate the energy transition, and conserve
biodiversity. For example, UK technical assistance helped deliver Colombia’s
first renewable energy auction in 2020 – which will increase solar and
wind capacity in the country from 50 MW to nearly 2,500 MW – as well
as the development of the country’s strategic planning for a low carbon
energy sector through skill-shares with UK experts. Our strong climate
partnership has also supported increased ambition in line with the goals
of the Paris Agreement and a net-zero future, with Colombia committing
in 2020 to cut 51% of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, compared to a
projected scenario.

287

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
15. Climate change disproportionately affects
the world’s poorest and can exacerbate
economic and social disparities. However,
local communities and indigenous knowledge
systems can also play a key role in solutions.

in an inclusive way. This is the first time
donor countries will have set out how they
will support this transition, including through
financial flows for quality local jobs in the most
vulnerable communities.

16. As part of our incoming COP26
Presidency, the UK has developed a
framework that aims to guide investment
towards a global net zero transition that also
supports the UN’s Sustainable Development
Goals. The framework will indicate how
support for developing countries and
emerging economies can accelerate climate
ambition and enable a global green recovery

17. Low carbon transitions should be fair
and affordable and not negatively impact
disadvantaged groups.65 We are committed
to monitoring the impacts of our climate and
clean energy policies, and any disparities
which arise, to assess the need for targeted
support for disproportionately impacted
groups, in line with the UNFCCC Gender
Action Plan and domestic law.

Influencing global action
COP26 Presidency
18. The four goals of our COP26 Presidency
are: (1) mitigation to secure global net
zero by mid-century to keep 1.5°C within
reach; (2) adapting to protect communities
and natural habitats; (3) mobilising finance
and (4) collaboration: working together to
deliver, finalising the Paris Rulebook and
accelerate action to tackle the climate crisis
through collaboration between governments,
businesses, and civil society.
19. There will also be a renewed focus
on accelerating near-term action in the
top priority areas of coal phase out, zeroemission vehicles, climate finance and halting
deforestation. We will ask countries to sign up
to initiatives under each goal:
•

Coal: to push for an immediate end to new
unabated coal power and international
coal financing, and the scaling up of
low carbon power to rapidly move away
from existing coal.

•

Trees: to halt natural forest loss by 2030
and restoring millions of hectares of
degraded landscapes and forestlands. This
is alongside improving governance and
increasing forest finance.

288

•

Cash: developed countries to make
good on their promise to mobilise at least
$100 billion in climate finance per year
through to 2025.

•

Cars: to accelerate the shift to zero
emission vehicles (ZEVs), pushing for
all new car sales in leading markets to
be ZEV by 2035.

20. Our COP26 Presidency has defined five
areas vital to a zero-carbon future: energy
transitions, clean transport, nature-based
solutions, adaptation and resilience, and, tying
it all together, finance. We are working with
those affected by climate change and with
wider civil society to harness innovation and
commitment in these areas and will continue
this work throughout our COP26 Presidency
year up to November 2022.

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy

Case study: 2020 Climate Ambition Summit
A major milestone ahead of COP26 was the 2020 Climate Ambition Summit,
co-convened by the UK, UN, and France, in partnership with Chile and Italy.
This landmark event demonstrated how we can help drive collective ambition
by combining major domestic commitments with diplomatic engagement,
working closely with multilateral organisations and international partners.
Achievements included more ambitious Nationally Determined Contributions
(NDCs) from 45 leaders. We also saw 24 countries announce new commitments,
plans or strategies to reach net zero, and a UK announcement on ending direct
government support the for fossil fuel energy sector overseas. When the UK was
confirmed as host of COP26, less than 30% of global GDP was signed up to net
zero or carbon neutrality commitments. Again, thanks in part to UK leadership,
that figure is now over 80% - and rising.
We will continue to encourage all countries to set targets to get to net zero by
2050, and more ambitious 2030 emissions reduction targets to get us there.
We are also encouraging countries to publish Adaptation Communications
or National Adaptation Plans. We will use COP26 and our Presidency year to
turn these commitments into action to make the next ten years the decade
of delivery.

289

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

G7 Presidency and G20
21. Under our 2021 G7 Presidency, members
committed to becoming ‘a net zero G7
by 2050 at the latest’; ensuring a green
recovery from COVID-19 that is sustainable,
resilient, and inclusive; phasing out new
direct government support for international
fossil fuel energy, and pursuing commitments
to support those most vulnerable to the
impacts of climate change and environmental
degradation. These have helped to lay the
foundation for COP26.
22. As inclusivity was at the heart of the
UK’s G7 Presidency, these commitments are
underpinned by pledges to support affected
workers and sectors so that no person, group,
or geographic region is left behind.

290

23. As part of our G7 Presidency, the UK
hosted several follow-up workshops including
on Net Zero Sectors and the Industrial
Decarbonisation Agenda (IDA). G7 members
supported the idea of using the IDA to unlock
market potential through high-level G7
government coordination and collaboration
on ambitious industrial decarbonisation
initiatives. Driving international cooperation on
decarbonisation will help to diffuse ‘first mover’
risks and address carbon leakage risks at the
outset. The IDA is due to be integrated into the
rotating G7 Presidency with Germany taking
ownership in 2022. During the rest of our G7
Presidency, we will work with our partners to
consider how best to coordinate efforts on
the pricing of carbon to mitigate emissions,
and to explore international solutions to
prevent carbon leakage, helping us deliver
the transformational change required by the
Paris Agreement.

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy

Key G7 climate commitments
•

Submitting net zero-aligned NDCs to 2030
and LTSs to 2050 ahead of COP26;

•

Reaffirming the collective developed
country goal to jointly mobilise $100 billion
per year through to 2025;

•

Increasing adaptation finance, including
a commitment to submit adaptation
communications ahead of COP26;

•

Accelerating the transition away from
unabated coal capacity and to an
overwhelmingly decarbonised power
system in the 2030s;

•

Ending new direct government support for
unabated international thermal coal power
generation by the end of 2021, alongside
phasing out new direct government
support for international fossil fuel energy
as soon as possible;

•

Increasing the pace of the global
decarbonisation of the road transport
sector throughout the 2020s and beyond;

•

Decarbonising hard-to-abate sectors,
including through a new UK-US-led
Industrial Decarbonisation Agenda;

•

Launching a new partnership to modernise
development finance tools to build back
better for the world, including for resilient
infrastructure and technologies to address
the impacts of climate change;

•

Pledging cooperation on the risk of carbon
leakage and to aligning trading practices
with the Paris Agreement; and

•

Recognising the potential of carbon
pricing to foster emission reductions,
while ensuring environmental and social
considerations are accounted for.

291

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
24. The G20 includes both developed and
developing nations. Its members are jointly
responsible for approximately 80% of global
emissions66 and more than 80% of global
GDP67: it must play a leading role in global
efforts to tackle climate change. In July
2021, UK Climate and Energy Ministers met
with their G20 counterparts in Naples to
agree to accelerate action in the 2020s, to
submit ambitious 2030 targets by COP26,

and to urge each other to develop long
term strategies in line with keeping the
1.5°C temperature goal within reach. The
UK will advocate for further action from the
G20 to meet the commitments of the Paris
Agreement. The Leaders’ Summit in Rome
in October, on the eve of COP26, will be a
crucial moment to build consensus for urgent
and ambitious action on climate change and
the clean energy transition.

Facilitating a global transition
25. The global move to a green and net zero
economy will require accelerated transitions
across all major emitting sectors – including
power, transport, buildings, industry and
agriculture, forests and land-use. All countries,
including the UK, can benefit from greater
collaboration to help achieve their net zero
targets more quickly and more cheaply.
26. Across the global economy, different
sectors are experiencing the transition at
different speeds (see infographic below for
one interpretation of the progress by sector).
International collaboration focused at the
sector level can accelerate action towards our
global goals, which is why it is a key focus
for the UK. This includes delivering faster
innovation through coordinating on research,
development, and demonstration of clean
technologies, as well as faster deployment
of technologies, by coordinating on policy,
finance, and trade measures to create new
demand, economies of scale, and supply
chains for clean technologies.

292

27. Collaborative action also sends clearer
market signals to businesses and consumers
about the global direction of travel. This
confidence in a credible global net zero
pathway is especially important for the
harder to abate sectors, such as heavy
industry, where we know that the pace of
emissions reduction will progress more slowly
up to 2030. However, action is needed
in these sectors now to lay the significant
groundwork required to set the path for future
emission reductions.
28. We will therefore continue to work with
countries to accelerate sectoral technologies
at COP26 and beyond – including continuing
to convene the Zero Emission Vehicle
Transition Council, the FACT Dialogue, and the
Energy Transition Council – as well as working
with partners to set a common vision for the
next decade of clean technology innovation
and deployment at COP26.

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy

Low or zero emission technology market share

Figure 30: The sectoral S-curve
EMERGENCE

DIFFUSION

RECONFIGURATION

Coordinated
development and
testing of new
technologies - to
accelerate learning

Coordinated
policies to expand
deployment - to
increase economies
of scale and improve
performance

Coordinated standards and
incentives - to ensure change
throughout the whole sector

10 9 8 7 6 5

4

3

2

1
Power

Cars

Buildings
Time or cumulative production
Trucks
Agriculture & Land Use
Aviation
Shipping
Steel
Source: Victor, D.G., Geels, F.W. and Sharpe, S., 2019 Accelerating the Low Carbon
Cement
Plastics
Transition: The Case for Stronger, More Targeted and Coordinated International Action

293

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Case study: COP26 Energy Transition Campaign
Our COP26 Energy Transition Campaign will help accelerate the global
transition from coal to renewables, enabling the energy sector to achieve
net zero. The UK is working through the Powering Past Coal Alliance (PPCA)
and the Energy Transition Council (ETC) up to, and beyond, COP26. This
will strengthen the coalition of countries, sub-national governments, and
businesses phasing out unabated coal power and reduce international
coal finance.
Solar and wind power are now cheaper than new coal and gas power
plants in two-thirds of the world.68 The Energy Campaign will bring together
countries, development banks, investors and civil society to strengthen low
carbon power investment and assistance so that it is viable for every country.
The UK has also worked with the IEA to launch a COP26 Product Efficiency
Call to Action, to double the efficiency of four key products (air conditioners,
refrigerators, industrial motors, and lighting) by 2030. These four products
combined currently account for more than a third of global electricity
consumption. Global action to improve product efficiency will lead to a
significant reduction in the energy sector’s carbon emissions.
The UK driving inclusive
climate action
29. We will drive forward our commitment
under the ‘Equal by 30 Campaign’ to
work towards equal pay, leadership, and
opportunities for women in the global clean
energy sector by 2030, and champion
increased gender representation across the
UK’s international organisations.

294

30. The UK remains committed to
strengthening the evidence base and
understanding of differentiated impacts of
climate change on men and women, the role
of women as agents of change and on equal
opportunities for women. We continue to
support amongst other things, increasing the
proportion of women and girls in decisionmaking and leadership positions, supporting
their access to finance, education, building
their resilience to climate change, and
improving data on gender and inclusion.

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy

Science and innovation
31. Science and innovation are essential
to achieve global climate goals. The UK
will continue to work closely with countries
to drive innovation, research, and aligned
policy to ensure that clean technologies
become cheaper and more readily available.
The UK will also continue to promote the
vital role of the Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change (IPCC) and other scientific
research, ensuring the best available science
is accessible and understood by all, enabling
informed decision-making across the world.

32. The UK will continue to use its
world‑leading position in climate-related
science and innovation to build global
multidisciplinary networks and facilitate
knowledge exchange to support effective
global climate action through initiatives
such as Mission Innovation, the Adaptation
Research Alliance, and the Visions for a
Net‑Zero Future project.

Case study: Mission Innovation
The UK has played a leading role in Mission Innovation (MI) since it launched
at COP21 as the primary intergovernmental forum focused on clean energy
innovation essential to achieving net zero. We have more than doubled our MI
baseline clean energy innovation spend over the past five years, exceeding
our MI commitment.
The second phase of Mission Innovation (MI 2.0) was launched in June 2021,
bringing together countries responsible for more than 90% of global R&D
clean energy investment and committed to a decade of action and investment
in innovation for clean energy solutions. Commitments included developing
National Innovation Pathways describing enhanced ambition to pioneer clean
energy technologies and sectors.
The UK is co-leading two of the three Missions. Launched as part of MI 2.0,
The Green Powered Future Mission is bringing together governments and
businesses to enable the transition to variable renewable power. The Clean
Hydrogen Mission aims to make clean hydrogen cost competitive. The UK is
also participating in the Zero-Emission Shipping Mission which aims for ships
capable of running on zero-emission fuels to comprise at least 5% of the
global deep sea fleet by 2030.

295

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Trade
33. The whole system shift that will be
required for the UK to reach net zero will
also mean changes to how and what we
trade. Taking a leading role in the global shift
to net zero presents a significant economic
opportunity for the UK. Estimates suggest
the UK’s low carbon economy could deliver
up to £170 billion of export sales of goods
and services by 2030.69 The UK will seek
to improve market access for green goods
and services through our trade policy, our
growing array of free trade agreements (FTAs)
and our seat at the World Trade Organization
(WTO). For example, when we exited the EU,
we unilaterally removed tariffs on over 100
additional products used in renewable energy
generation, energy efficiency, carbon capture,
and the circular economy as part of the UK’s
Global Tariff.70
34. We will seek to reaffirm our commitment
to the Paris Agreement in all UK
trade agreements and will ensure that they
preserve our regulatory autonomy to pursue
our climate targets including our Carbon
Budgets, enhanced 2030 NDC and 2050 net
zero commitment. We will use our multilateral
fora to galvanise international partners to
adopt climate-ambitious trade policy, and
to promote global trade rules that are aligned
to net zero and the Paris Agreement, for
example through the WTO committees and
the new Trade and Environmental
Sustainability Structured Discussions.

35. While there are significant opportunities
for UK trade to support our climate and
nature ambitions as we transition to net
zero, it is important we ensure that our
policy interventions support global emissions
reductions. The UK is at the forefront
of measuring and publishing statistics
of emissions generated overseas in the
production of goods and services consumed
by UK residents. We recognise there is much
more to do on consumption emissions globally
which is why we are urging and supporting
other countries to raise ambition on climate
change, including on effectively pricing
carbon, as well as considering this issue as we
negotiate new FTAs.
36. Decisions on the liberalisation of partners
goods must account for their environmental
and climate impact. Where there is evidence
that liberalisation could lead to significant
carbon leakage the case for maintaining
tariffs or pursuing conditional market access,
through clauses on standards or eco/carbon
intensity, should be carefully considered.
37. We will publish a refreshed Export
Strategy by the end of 2021. The Strategy
will help deliver jobs and growth and
maximise export opportunities for green
UK technologies and innovation. It will also
support our transition to net zero, enabling
the UK to take advantage of the window to
boost UK competitiveness in key low carbon
technologies, services and systems. The
Strategy will also help developing countries
mitigate and adapt to climate change and
nature loss by reducing trade barriers to help
them benefit from the green transition.
38. UK Export Finance is also expanding its
suite of green products and published the UK
Export Finance Climate Change Strategy in
September 2021. The UK is also one of the
founding signatories of the Export Finance for
Future initiative, a coalition of countries which
endorsed a statement of principles to better
integrate climate in export finance.

296

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy

Finance
39. At COP26 the UK is working to
achieve the finance goal, agreed in Article
2.1.c of the Paris Agreement, to make
finance flows consistent with a pathway
towards low greenhouse gas emissions
and climate‑resilient development. The UK
Presidency published our Priorities for Public
Finance earlier in 2021, and Priorities for
Private Finance in 2020.71
40. Following COP26, the UK will continue
to strive for greater ambition on finance.
Achieving the global transition requires
renewed action from all stakeholders to
support the needs of developing countries.
From the global to the local level, we need to

put in place the conditions for a sustainable
recovery and climate action, creating the
right investment environments and aligning
national budgets and planning processes with
the goals of the Paris Agreement and 2030
Sustainable Development Agenda.
41. However, international public finance
alone will never be enough to achieve the
trillions of investment needed and put the
world on a sustainable footing; the private
sector will be key. Achieving net zero and
our finance goals requires changes from the
whole economy – we need every company,
bank, insurer, and investor to adjust their
business models, develop credible plans for
the transition and implement them.

UK global climate action beyond COP26
42. Beyond our COP26 and G7 Presidencies,
and the commitments outlined in this chapter,
the UK will continue championing the fight
against climate change and biodiversity
loss internationally and at home in the
decade to come.
43. The UK COP26 Presidency will formally
begin at the Summit in November 2021
and run until COP27 in November 2022.
Throughout our Presidency year, we will build
on the outcomes from COP26 and the COP26
campaigns, including further strengthening the
architecture for collaboration in key sectors,
and work with international partners to keep
the 1.5°C temperature goal alive. This entails
continuing to advocate for our four Presidency
goals with a focus on progress against our
agreed targets in critical sectors and building
the conditions for further ambition and a
successful Global Stocktake in 2023.
44. Building on our COP26 Presidency, we
are developing a 2030 Strategic Framework
due to be published in 2022. The Framework
will provide a coordinated approach to
deliver against the climate and biodiversity
commitments set out in the Integrated Review.

It will also establish a common vision and clear
priorities to guide UK international climate
and nature action over the next decade. The
UK will continue to play a leadership role in
delivering the change needed by capitalising
on our areas of strengths including diplomacy,
finance, science, technology and innovation,
trade, and domestic leadership.
45. On top of the 2030 Strategic
Framework, we will aim to mobilise greater
finance for nature, tackle the key drivers
of biodiversity loss, and deliver against the
targets contained in the post-2020 Global
Biodiversity Framework.
46. The upcoming International Climate
Finance Strategy will set out how we will use
our £11.6 billion ICF to deliver transformational
programmes in support of mitigation and
adaptation action in developing countries
across the four themes of clean energy,
nature, resilience, and infrastructure.

297

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Endnotes
1

Mission Innovation is a global initiative of 24 countries, including the UK and the European
Commission, working to accelerate clean energy innovation. It was established in 2015.

2

BEIS (2020), ‘The Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution’, https://www.gov.uk/
government/publications/the-ten-point-plan-for-a-green-industrial-revolution

3

This includes legacy funding from government’s previous £505 million Energy Innovation
Programme.

4

We recently published a Fusion Strategy and a Fusion Regulation Green Paper, recognising
that fusion could be the ultimate clean power solution, representing a low carbon, safe,
continuous and effectively unlimited source of energy. BEIS (2021), ‘Towards fusion energy:
the UK government’s fusion strategy’, https://www.gov.uk/government/consultations/towardsfusion-energy-proposals-for-a-regulatory-framework; BEIS (2021), ‘Towards fusion energy:
proposals for a regulatory framework’ https://www.gov.uk/government/consultations/towardsfusion-energy-proposals-for-a-regulatory-framework.

5

BEIS analysis based on the methodology used in the Energy Innovation Needs Assessments.
BEIS (2019), ‘Energy Innovation Needs Assessments’.

6

The Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund (ISCF) aims to bring together our world-leading
research base with Britain’s best businesses to address the biggest challenges society faces,
including clean growth. The fund, which is part of government’s £4.7 billion investment in R&D
over 4 years is delivered by UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) and its partners.

7

Bank of England (2021), ‘A roadmap for increasing productive finance investment’, https://
www.bankofengland.co.uk/report/2021/a-roadmap-for-increasing-productive-financeinvestment

8

Major projects are defined as those which: require spending over and above departmental
expenditure limits; require primary legislation; and are innovative or contentious. More
information can be found at https://www.gov.uk/government/groups/major-projects-authority

9

This diagram is not an entirely accurate representation of the stages of development at which
these institutions and funds intervene and it is simplification of the varied programmes and
impacts they have on different sectors, businesses and technologies. However, it demonstrates
roughly where these government interventions have greatest impact and have a key role to play
in delivering economy-wide net zero solutions.

10

Mark Carney and the COP26 Private Finance Hub – in partnership with the UNFCCC Climate
Actions Champions and the Race to Zero campaign and the COP26 Presidency- have
launched a coalition that combines existing and new net zero finance initiatives into a wider
strategic forum: The Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero (GFANZ). GFANZ aims to raise
ambition in the financial sector by allowing firms to demonstrate collective commitment to net
zero.

11

BloombergNEF (2021), Database accessed 12/10/2021

298

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy
12

This diagram is only an approximation of the maturity of different sectors to illustrate potential
public sector interventions.

13

Defra, Environment Agency, Natural England (2021), ‘Innovative nature projects awarded
funding to drive private investment’, https://www.gov.uk/government/news/innovative-natureprojects-awarded-funding-to-drive-private-investment

14

BEIS (2020), ‘Government launches new £40m Clean Growth Fund to supercharge green
start-ups’, [Press release] https://www.gov.uk/government/news/government-launches-new40-million-clean-growth-fund-to-supercharge-green-start-ups

15

Chaired by Mark Carney, is bringing together over 160 firms from the leading net zero initiatives
across the financial system to accelerate the transition to net zero emissions by 2050 at the
latest.

16

Chancellor sets out how UK financial services can create prosperity at home and project values
abroad in first Mansion House speech: https://www.gov.uk/government/news/chancellor-setsout-how-uk-financial-services-can-create-prosperity-at-home-and-project-values-abroad-infirst-mansion-house-speech

17

BEIS (2019), ‘Green Finance Strategy’, https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/greenfinance-strategy

18

Chancellor sets out how UK financial services can create prosperity at home and project values
abroad in first Mansion House speech: https://www.gov.uk/government/news/chancellor-setsout-how-uk-financial-services-can-create-prosperity-at-home-and-project-values-abroad-infirst-mansion-house-speech

19

LSE Grantham Institute (2021), ‘Green economy: how the transition to net-zero could affect UK
jobs across the country’, https://www.lse.ac.uk/granthaminstitute/news/green-economy-howthe-transition-to-net-zero-could-affect-uk-jobs-across-the-country/

20

BEIS (2021), ‘Wind of change for the Humber region’, [Press release] https://www.gov.uk/
government/news/wind-of-change-for-the-humber-region

21

The World Bank, Climate-Smart Mining: Minerals for Climate Action, https://www.worldbank.
org/en/topic/extractiveindustries/brief/climate-smart-mining-minerals-for-climate-action

22

BEIS (2020), ‘The Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution’, https://www.gov.uk/
government/publications/the-ten-point-plan-for-a-green-industrial-revolution

23

CITB (2021), ‘Building Skills for Net Zero’, https://www.citb.co.uk/about-citb/constructionindustry-research-reports/search-our-construction-industry-research-reports/building-skills-fornet-zero/

24

Heat Pump Association (2020), ‘Building the Installer Base for Net Zero Heating’, https://www.
heatpumps.org.uk/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/Building-the-Installer-Base-for-Net-ZeroHeating_02.06.pdf

25

BEIS (2021), ‘Green Jobs Taskforce Report’, https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/
green-jobs-taskforce-report]

26

Forestry Skills Forum (2021) ‘Forestry Workforce Research’, https://www.confor.org.uk/
media/2678188/forestry-workforce-research-final-report-august-2021.pdf
299

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
27

BEIS (2021), ‘Green Jobs Taskforce report’, https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/
green-jobs-taskforce-report

28

BEIS (2021), ‘Green Jobs Taskforce report’, https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/
green-jobs-taskforce-report

29

BEIS (2021), ‘Green Jobs Taskforce report’, https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/
green-jobs-taskforce-report

30

Building back better and greener, BEACON, https://beaconwales.org/

31

Industrial Strategy Council (2019), ‘UK Skills Mismatch 2030 – research paper’, https://
industrialstrategycouncil.org/uk-skills-mismatch-2030-research-paper

32

What Qualification Levels Mean, GOV.UK, https://www.gov.uk/what-different-qualificationlevels-mean/list-of-qualification-levels

33

BEIS (2021), ‘Green Jobs Taskforce report’, https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/
green-jobs-taskforce-report

34

BEIS Analysis; NAEI (2021), ‘Greenhouse Gas Inventories for England, Scotland,
Wales & Northern Ireland: 1990-2019’, “https://eur02.safelinks.protection.outlook.
com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fuk-air.defra.gov.uk%2Freports%2Fcat09%2F2106240841_
DA_GHGI_1990-2019_Final_Issue1.2.xlsx&data=04%7C01%7CCarys.Parkinson%40beis.
gov.uk%7C3fcede07e99f45792dde08d98d882921%7Ccbac700502c143ebb497e6492d1
b2dd8%7C0%7C0%7C637696438200726854%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C1000&sdata=OjdCXYKW2%2FON40TzziyLmu6qxINXUeWV90NZOL60vyI%3D&reserved=0” https://
uk-air.defra.gov.uk/reports/cat09/2106240841_DA_GHGI_1990-2019_Final_Issue1.2.xlsx

35

ONS (2021), ‘Regional gross domestic product: all ITL regions’, 1998 - 2019, “https://
eur02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.ons.gov.uk%2Feconomy%2Fgrossdomesticproductgdp%2Fdatasets%2Fregionalgrossdomesticproductallnutslevelregions&data=04%7C01%7CCarys.Parkinson%40beis.gov.uk%7C3fcede07e99f45792dde08d98d882921%7Ccbac700502c143ebb497e6492d1b2dd8%7C0%7C0%
7C637696438200746767%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C1000&sdata=xonO3pzT%2FBi81uXG8jQcG75pJSRS1Z5oSpyvzCLkDtE%3D&reserved=0” https://www.ons.gov.uk/economy/grossdomesticproductgdp/datasets/regionalgrossdomesticproductallnutslevelregions

36

CCC (2020), ‘Sixth Carbon Budget’, https://www.theccc.org.uk/publication/sixth-carbonbudget/

37

BEIS (2021), Final UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics. BEIS (2020), Updated
energy and emissions projections: 2019.

38

Compared to 2018 baseline.

39

Where cycling activity is measured as the estimated total number of cycle stages made each
year, from 0.8 billion stages in 2013 to 1.6 billion stages in 2025.

40

Where walking activity is measured as the total number of walking stages per person per year,
to 300 stages per person per year in 2025

300

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy
41

Collection Final UK Greenhouse gas emissions national statistics, BEIS, https://www.gov.uk/
government/collections/final-uk-greenhouse-gas-emissions-national-statistics

42

Government Commercial Function, ‘Guide to using the Social Value Model’. 3 December 2020.
https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_
data/file/940827/Guide-to-using-the-Social-Value-Model-Edn-1.1-3-Dec-20.pdf

43

This analysis excludes the LULUCF sector, which is a net sink of emissions in most local
authorities, however the proportion is not sensitive to this approach.

44

Provisional assessment of policies and proposals. Savings cover only aspects of the policy
package where it has been possible to determine the likely local authority role.

45

Community Energy England (2021), ‘Community Energy State of the Sector 2021’,
https://communityenergyengland.org/pages/state-of-the-sector

46

BEIS Public Attitudes Tracker: Wave 37 – Key Findings’, https://www.gov.uk/government/
statistics/beis-public-attitudes-tracker-wave-37

47

BEIS Research Report Number: 2021/034, ‘Climate change and net zero: public awareness
and perceptions’, Annex 1: data tables, https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/climatechange-and-net-zero-public-awareness-and-perceptions

48

BEIS (2021), ‘Net zero public dialogue’, https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/net-zeropublic-dialogue

49

Net Zero Societal Change Analysis Project, Energy Systems Catapult Research, June 2021

50

This draws on work commissioned by BEIS from the Behavioural Insights Team ‘Net zero:
principles for successful behaviour change initiatives’, The Behavioural Insights Team. BIT
conducted a rapid evidence review of relevant literature, compiled a total of 87 policy case
studies from OECD countries and consulted with 10 experts from a range of behavioural and
social sciences.

51

Smart metering statistics, Quarterly update June 2021, https://www.gov.uk/government/
collections/smart-meters-statistics

52

ONS, Provisional UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 2020: https://www.gov.uk/
government/statistics/provisional-uk-greenhouse-gas-emissions-national-statistics-2020

53

BEIS W11 Kantar Attitudes Tracker, Jan 2021 (Question: % agree that as a business we have a
responsibility to reduce our carbon emissions to tackle climate change)

54

The 68% excludes International Aviation and Shipping

55

IPCC (2018), ‘Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5C’, https://www.ipcc.ch/sr15/

56

PBL Netherlands Environmental Assessment Agency (2020), ‘Trends in global CO2 and total
greenhouse gas emissions’, https://www.pbl.nl/en/trends-in-global-co2-emissions

57

PBL Netherlands Environmental Assessment Agency (2020), ‘Trends in global CO2 and total
greenhouse gas emissions’, https://www.pbl.nl/en/trends-in-global-co2-emissions

301

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
58

Cabinet Office (2021), ‘Global Britain in a Competitive Age: the Integrated Review of Security,
Defence, Development and Foreign Policy’, https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/
global-britain-in-a-competitive-age-the-integrated-review-of-security-defence-developmentand-foreign-policy

59

IEA (2021), ‘Global Energy Related CO2 emissions in the net zero pathway and Low
International Cooperation Case, 2010-2090’, https://www.iea.org/data-and-statistics/
charts/global-energy-related-co2-emissions-in-the-net-zero-pathway-and-low-internationalcooperation-case-2010-2090

60

Rocky Mountain Institution (2019), ‘Seven Challenges for Energy Transformation’, https://rmi.
org/seven-challenges-report/

61

BEIS (2020), ‘The UK’s Nationally Determined Contribution under the Paris Agreement’,
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/the-uks-nationally-determined-contributioncommunication-to-the-unfccc. The 68% excludes International Aviation and Shipping.

62

Prime Minister’s Office, 10 Downing Street (2021), ‘Prime Minister commits £3bn UK climate
finance to supporting nature’ [Press release], https://www.gov.uk/government/news/primeminister-commits-3bn-uk-climate-finance-to-supporting-nature

63

FCDO (2021), ‘UK Climate Finance results 2021’, [Corporate report] https://www.gov.uk/
government/publications/uk-climate-finance-results-2021

64

BEIS (2021), ‘BEIS Equality Objectives’, [Corporate report], https://www.gov.uk/government/
publications/beis-equality-objectives

65

BEIS (2021), ‘BEIS Equality Objectives’, [Corporate report], https://www.gov.uk/government/
publications/beis-equality-objectives

66

UN Environnent Programme (2020), ‘Emissions Gap Report 2020’, https://www.unep.org/
interactive/emissions-gap-report/2020/

67

UN Environment Programme (2020), ‘Emissions Gap Report 2020’, https://www.unep.org/
interactive/emissions-gap-report/2020/

68

International Renewable Energy Agency (2021), ‘Majority of New Renewables Undercut
Cheapest Fossil Fuel on Cost’, [Press release], https://www.irena.org/newsroom/
pressreleases/2021/Jun/Majority-of-New-Renewables-Undercut-Cheapest-Fossil-Fuel-on-Cost

69

CCC (2017), ‘UK business opportunities of moving to a low-carbon economy’, HYPERLINK
“http://www.theccc.org.uk/publication/uk-energy-prices-and-bills-2017-report-supportingresearch/” www.theccc.org.uk/publication/uk-energy-prices-and-bills-2017-report-supportingresearch/

70

DIT (2020), ‘UK Global Tariff backs UK businesses and consumers’, https://www.gov.uk/
government/news/uk-global-tariff-backs-uk-businesses-and-consumers

71

Mark Carney, UN Special Envoy for Climate Action and Finance and the Prime Minister’s
Finance Adviser for COP26 (2021), ‘Priorities for Private Finance for COP26’, https://ukcop26.
org/wp-content/uploads/2020/11/COP26-Private-Finance-Hub-Strategy_Nov-2020v4.1.pdf

302

Chapter 4 – Supporting the Transition across the Economy

303

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Technical
Annex

305

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Technical Annex
UK carbon budgets and international emissions targets
Climate Change Act

Legislated carbon budgets

1. Parliament passed the Climate Change
Act1 (the Act) in 2008, establishing the UK’s
2050 target and the supporting framework
of carbon budgets. The Act also established
the Committee on Climate Change, now
the Climate Change Committee (CCC), an
independent statutory body, to advise the
Government and the Devolved Administrations
on setting and meeting carbon budgets. The
CCC advises on the level of each budget, the
respective contributions that different sectors
could make and the extent to which carbon
budgets could be met through the use of
permitted “flexibilities” (such as surpluses from
previous carbon budgets or the purchase of
good quality international carbon credits).

5. Six carbon budgets have been set to date,
covering 2008 to 2037. The sixth carbon
budget, the first to be decided under the UK’s
new net zero target, was set in June 2021.
The UK has already met, and overachieved,
its first (2008-2012) and second (2013-2017)
carbon budgets, and is on track to meet its
current third (2018‑2022) carbon budget.4

2. Under the Act, the UK was legally required
to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at
least 80 per cent by 2050 on 1990 levels.
In 2019, on advice of the CCC2, the UK
committed to reaching net zero emissions by
2050 and consequently the target reduction in
the Act was increased to at least 100%.
3. To keep the UK on a pathway to achieving
the 2050 target, the Government is obliged to
set legally binding, five-year caps on emissions
– carbon budgets – twelve years in advance
and then to publish a report setting out
policies and proposals for meeting that budget
and those budgets previously set.
4. The Net Zero Strategy is the means by
which we satisfy the requirements of the Act in
relation to policies and proposals for meeting
the current carbon budgets.3

306

6. To show how we will meet our climate
targets, including legislated carbon budgets up
to and including the sixth carbon budget, the
Net Zero Strategy contains both an indicative
delivery pathway and illustrative 2050 net zero
scenarios. The pathway, which stretches to
the end of the Sixth Carbon Budget period
in 2037, provides an indicative trajectory of
emissions reductions which we aim to achieve
through the Strategy and through delivery of
the policies and proposals outlined. It therefore
indicates the timescales over which we expect
those policies and proposals to take effect to
deliver our targets. The pathway is designed
to be broadly consistent with all three of
the illustrative 2050 scenarios set out in the
Journey to Net Zero chapter of the Net Zero
Strategy. There is uncertainty associated with
our decarbonisation pathway through to 2037
and the 2050 scenarios – the exact path we
take to meet our climate targets is likely to
differ and must respond flexibly to changes
that arise over time.

Technical Annex

International emissions targets
7. The 2015 Paris Agreement5 under the UN
established the goal of keeping the global
mean temperature rise to well below 2°C,
whilst pursuing efforts to limit the rise to under
1.5°C. Under the Kigali amendment to the
Montreal Protocol, the UK has also committed
to reducing F-gas emissions by 85% on 20112013 levels by 2036.
8. Under the Paris Agreement, the UK
announced its Nationally Determined
Contribution (NDC) in December 2020, which
commits the UK to reduce net greenhouse
gas (GHG) emissions by at least 68% by 2030
compared to 1990 reference year levels.6
This represents an increase of ambition on
the fifth carbon budget, which covers the
years 2028-2032.

9. The UK will therefore need to overachieve
on the fifth carbon budget to meet its
international climate targets and stay on track
for the sixth carbon budget. Accordingly, the
policies and proposals, delivery pathway,
deployment assumptions and any other
analysis presented in the Net Zero Strategy
for the fifth carbon budget period are
consistent with the action required to meet the
UK’s 2030 NDC.
10. The Net Zero Strategy also constitutes the
UK’s updated Long-Term Low Greenhouse
Gas Emission Development Strategy for the
purposes of the Paris Agreement.

Accounting for UK emissions
The UK greenhouse gas inventory
11. The UK’s performance against its 2050
target and carbon budgets is assessed
through the UK’s net carbon account,7
measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide
equivalent (tCO2e). The net carbon account
comprises GHG emissions from the UK net
of emissions which are captured and stored
from land use, land-use change and forestry
(LULUCF). The UK greenhouse gas inventory8
is the basis for calculating the UK’s domestic
greenhouse gas emissions. Performance
against a carbon budget is assessed against
the earliest GHG inventory that covers the
whole of the carbon budget period, which is
published two years after the carbon budget
period in question ends. For example, the
sixth carbon budget will be assessed in 2039
based on the 1990-2037 GHG inventory.

12. The net carbon account also includes
the UK’s net purchases/sales of international
carbon units, if any. Carbon units include
allowances issued under cap-and-trade
systems, and international carbon credits
issued under international schemes. While the
UK intends to meet its climate targets for each
of carbon budgets 3 to 6 through reducing
emissions domestically and the proposals
and policies set out in this Strategy have
been prepared on that basis, it reserves the
right to use such voluntary cooperation under
Article 6 of the Paris Agreement. This could
occur through linking the UK ETS to another
emissions trading system, or through the
use of international emissions reductions or
removals units.

307

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
13. The net carbon account for each
budget is calculated according to rules set
in Carbon Accounting Regulations.9 The
accounting regulations that apply to each of
the carbon budgets may not be in place until
after the carbon budget periods are over, so
assumptions are required on what accounting
rules will apply. Some key assumptions are
outlined in the remainder of this section.
14. The international science behind
measuring emissions is continually evolving
and the assumptions made here do not
preclude future decisions on emissions
accounting at both the domestic and
international level. If future accounting
decisions turn out to differ from the
assumptions made here, this would not
automatically lead to a change in the budget
levels. The Climate Change Act allows
for legislated carbon budget levels to be
amended if the government believes that,
since the budget level was originally set, there
have been significant changes affecting the
basis on which the previous decision was
made. Where such changes happen but no
reset occurs, significant policy changes may
be needed to meet the carbon budget.

Peatland emissions
15. Emissions from peatlands were only
partially captured in the UK GHG inventory
when the first five carbon budgets were
set. A major revision to the inventory was
implemented in February 2021 for the 19902019 inventory10 to represent these emissions
with methodologies consistent with the IPCC
Wetlands Supplement11, which will count
towards all current and future carbon budgets.
All analysis in this document includes peatland
emissions in line with the updated inventory.
This revision increased estimated emissions in
2019 by approximately 16 MtCO2e relative to
the methods used in the previous inventory.

308

International aviation and shipping
16. The sixth carbon budget is the first that
will include international aviation and shipping
(IAS) emissions. Previous budgets have not
included IAS emissions but were set such
that headroom for IAS emissions was left. We
have used bunker fuel sales to calculate IAS
emissions for the sixth carbon budget. Under
this method, IAS emissions are estimated from
the amount of refuelling from bunkers at UK
airports and ports, whether by UK or non-UK
operators, for onward international journeys.

Global warming potentials
17. Emissions of each greenhouse gas
(carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide,
fluorinated gases) are expressed in terms of
carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e), recognising
the different global warming potentials (GWP)
of the different gases.
18. The UK greenhouse gas inventory
currently uses 100-year GWPs published
in the IPCC’s Fourth Assessment Report
(AR4).12 However, it was agreed by the
international community that GHG emissions
would be reported under the Paris Agreement
transparency framework using an updated
set of 100-year GWPs from the IPCC’s Fifth
Assessment Report (AR5).13, 14 Two sets
of values for 100-year AR5 GWPs were
published (with and without climate-carbon
feedbacks, which reflect more indirect effects
of GHG emissions on the climate system
- included in their methodologies) and it is
not yet clear which will be used. Therefore,
to ensure that carbon budgets can still be
met under either methodology, emissions
pathways in the main body of the Net Zero
Strategy are based on the higher AR5 GWPs
with feedback methodology (consistent with
the approach taken in setting the sixth carbon
budget). However, this does not preclude any
future decisions on which methodology will be
used, and emissions pathways based on AR5
GWPs without feedback are also presented in
this technical annex.

Technical Annex
19. The use of AR5 GWPs without feedback
results in a lower CO2-equivalent value for UK
GHG emissions compared to AR5 GWPs with
feedback, meaning that less abatement would
be required to meet the same carbon budget.
As a result, it may appear that the policies
and proposals in this strategy overachieve
on our carbon budgets when based on AR5
GWPs without feedback. However, these
provide additional headroom with which
the Government could seek to manage
uncertainty in emissions projections. We would
review the cost effectiveness of maintaining
this headroom as the necessary policies and
proposals are implemented. Conversely, since
the 2030 NDC is a percentage-based target
and the base year to which that percentage
relates comprises disproportionately high
non‑CO2 emissions, slightly more abatement
is actually required to meet the NDC under the
lower AR5 GWPs without feedback compared
to AR5 GWPs with feedback.
20. The Working Group I Contribution to the
IPCC’s Sixth Assessment Report (AR6)15 was
published in August 2021, which included
updated estimates of 100-year AR6 GWPs.
However, it is not yet certain if or when these
will be used for GHG emissions reporting
under the UNFCCC or Paris Agreement. UK
GHG emissions based on AR6 GWPs would
be closer to UK emissions based on AR5
GWPs without feedback than based on AR5
GWPs with feedback.

The UK Emissions Trading
Scheme (ETS)
21. Calculations of carbon emissions by
HMG historically followed a net accounting
framework16 that constructed the total
carbon budget as a sum of two individual
components: i) emissions covered by the EU
Emissions Trading System (ETS), known as
traded sector emissions (around one third of
all UK emissions); and ii) emissions outside
the EU ETS known as non-traded sector
emissions. When the UK was part of the EU
ETS, the UK share of EU ETS allowances was
used to calculate traded sector emissions,
and emissions in the non-traded sector were
measured as actually emitted. The sum of
these was the net carbon account.
22. Now that the UK is no longer participating
in the EU ETS, UK operators are not trading
emissions allowances with operators outside
the UK. The new UK ETS came into operation
on 1 January 2021, and it is only currently
necessary to count emissions within the
UK territory towards carbon budgets. We
assume that all years from 2021 onwards will
be accounted on this basis. If the UK ETS
were later linked with another ETS it may be
decided that an adjustment needs to be made
to account for any trading of allowances.17

The UK’s 2030 Nationally Determined
Contribution
23. Accounting for the UK’s nationally
determined contribution is different from that
for carbon budgets. In particular, the NDC is
a fixed percentage-based target. This means
that any changes to the inventory in the
baseline year will change the level of effort
required to meet the NDC, while the carbon
budgets are fixed targets in MtCO2e.

Accounting for UK climate targets
24. The above assumptions are summarised
in Table 1, alongside the coverage and level of
the UK’s climate targets.
309

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Table 1: Accounting basis of UK climate targets
Carbon
Budget 3

Carbon
Budget 4

Carbon
Budget 5

NDC

Carbon
Budget 6

Years

2018-2022

2023-2027

2028-2032

2030

2033-2037

MtCO2e limit
(annual
equivalent)

2,544
(509)

1,950
(390)

1,725
(345)

% based target
(estimated
262-275*)

965
(193)

Accounting
basis

Traded/ nontraded split for
2018-2020
Territorial for
2021-22

Territorial UK
emissions

Territorial UK
emissions

Territorial UK
emissions

Territorial UK
emissions

International
Aviation and
Shipping (IAS)

Excluded

Excluded

Excluded

Excluded

Included

Base year
(1990)**
emissions

859.6

859.6

859.6

TBC***

883.3****

Percentage
reduction on
1990 (implied
for carbon
budgets)*****

41%

(859.6)
55%

60%

68%

78%

*The range of emissions required to meet the NDC reflects uncertainty over whether AR5 with or without feedback
GWPs are used. Uncertainty over baseline emissions in the 1990-2030 GHG inventory means the actual limit may lie
outside this range.
**Base year emissions are calculated as emissions of CO2, N2O and CH4 in 1990, and fluorinated gases in 1995.
***The baseline for the NDC will be determined by the GHG inventory 1990-2030, meaning that the abatement
required to meet the NDC is dependent on future estimates of baseline emissions. Our estimate of that abatement is
based on the UK 1990-2019 GHG inventory.
****The baseline for the sixth carbon budget includes 23.7 MtCO2e for IAS, based on bunker fuel sales.
*****Estimates of historic UK GHG emissions are revised annually to incorporate methodological improvements,
updated data and changes to international guidelines. The percentage reductions implied by CB levels are therefore
subject to change.

310

Technical Annex

Baseline emissions projections
25. While the GHG inventory is the source
for historical emissions data, a combination
of sector modelling and the BEIS Energy
and Emissions Projections (EEP)18 are used
to project future emissions. This section
sets out the assumptions about the baseline
used for the purpose of this analysis. These
projections determine baseline emissions
for the indicative delivery pathway, based on
policies implemented, adopted, or planned
as of August 2019, and thus the further
total emissions savings required to meet
the carbon budgets. The baseline does
not include policies announced in the Ten
Point Plan, Energy White Paper, Transport
Decarbonisation Plan, or the Industrial
Decarbonisation Strategy.

26. In some sectors, adjustments to the
EEP 2019 reference case,19 published in
October 2020, have been made to reflect
developments in the evidence base since
publication and to tailor it to ensure it is
suitable as a baseline for the Net Zero
Strategy. The adjusted EEP, referred to as
the “baseline”, incorporates the Office for
Budget Responsibility’s (OBR) central forecast
of economic growth available in July 2020.20
The baseline also includes some planned
methodological improvements and corrections
brought forward from the forthcoming EEP
2020, but no updates to policies beyond
those included in EEP 2019. Table 2 provides
details of these changes, and Figure 1
compares the differences across the series.
The uncertainty range is explained further in
paragraphs 45-48.21

Figure 1: Net Zero Strategy baseline compared to EEP 201922
550

500

MtCO2e

450

400

350

300
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 2031 2032 2033 2034 2035 2036 2037

Uncertainty (NZS)

Adjusted EEP19

NZS Baseline (incl. IAS)

311

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
27. In accordance with the accounting rules
represented in Table 1, all baselines are
adjusted where relevant to be consistent

with accounting assumptions for the
relevant carbon budget.

Table 2: Differences between Net Zero Strategy baseline and EEP 2019
reference case

Sector

Change between EEP 2019 and Net Zero
Strategy baseline

Impact on total
CB6 emissions,
2033-37 (MtCO2e)

All

Update of economic growth projections to the latest available OBR
forecasts as of July 2020.

-42

All

Conversion of GHGs to CO2e using Global Warming Potentials from
AR5 with feedback compared to AR4 in EEP 2019.

+75

Buildings

Improvement of energy demand projections for domestic buildings.
EEP 2019 did not fully account for technology improvements in
new build dwellings beyond those directly attributable to Building
Regulations.

-35

Buildings,
Industry and
Agriculture

Improvement to the methodology for alignment with UK Greenhouse
Gas Inventory estimates for mobile machinery and other oil
emissions. This results in lower emissions in agriculture and buildings,
and higher emissions in industry.

Negligible net impact.

Buildings

Inclusion of estimates of short-term behaviour change in 2020 on
energy demand in public buildings.

Impact limited to 20202021.

Buildings

Inclusion of estimates of short-term behaviour change in 2020 on
energy demand in domestic buildings.

Impact limited to 20202021.

Industry

Improvement of energy demand projection methodology for
chemicals and construction industry subsectors.

+38

Industry

Alignment of projections of emissions from refineries with the Net
Zero Industrial Pathways model to reflect the impact of UK and global
decarbonisation under a net zero consistent world scenario.

-22

Fuel supply

Alignment of projections for offshore oil and gas with projections from
the Oil and Gas Authority (OGA).

-42

Power

Power sector evidence base has been updated to latest data
available. This includes a revision to Energy from Waste (EfW)
emissions where EEP2019 underestimated these due to an error in
the percentage of EfW that is renewable. In addition, some policies
included in EEP2019 have been removed as these are considered
to be pre-Energy White Paper, in particular further Nuclear beyond
HPC, and building one Gas CCS plant. Offshore Wind capacity is
15 GW higher in 2035 than in EEP2019 as further CfD auctions
and planning means more capacity is on track to be built. There is
also more large solar capacity building due to lower costs for this
technology in up to date evidence.

-9

312

Technical Annex

Change between EEP 2019 and Net Zero
Strategy baseline

Impact on total
CB6 emissions,
2033-37 (MtCO2e)

Transport

Inclusion of estimates of short-term behaviour change in 2020 in
road transport and domestic aviation.

Impact limited to
2020-2021.

Transport

Correction of a calibration error in EEP 2019 which led to an
underestimation of the amount of oil in the historic fuel mix for
transport.

+14

Transport

Closer alignment of national navigation and fishing emissions
estimates with research commissioned by the Department for
Transport.

+<5

International
Aviation and
Shipping

Inclusion of estimates of short-term behaviour change in 2020 on
international aviation.

Impact limited to 20202021.

International
Aviation and
Shipping

Closer alignment of international shipping estimates with research
commissioned by the Department for Transport.

+7

Sector

28. There is ongoing uncertainty over how
the COVID-19 pandemic will affect emissions
in the long term. In 2020, emissions fell,23
but it is not yet clear what the effect will be
on future emissions. We have assumed that
there is no long-term behavioural change due
to the pandemic. However, as stated above,
the baseline is adjusted for the reduction
in economic growth and the short-term
behaviour changes occurring due to the
COVID-19 pandemic. 24

Sector definitions
29. The precise definition of the sectors used
by the Net Zero Strategy, marked against
IPCC categories, is published separately to
this document.25 A summary of the coverage
of each sector is shown in Table 3. Where
sector chapters cover more than one of these
sectors, the below table shows which sectors
are covered by which chapter.

313

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Table 3: Net Zero Strategy sector definitions
NZS Sector

Sector
chapter

Power

Power

Emissions from power stations (Major Power Producers only), including
those generating energy from waste.

Fuel Supply

Fuel Supply and
Hydrogen

Emissions from the extraction, processing, and production of fuels
(chiefly oil, coal, gas and hydrogen).

Industry

Industry

Emissions from industrial processes, manufacturing, and production,
including fuel combustion and product use in industrial buildings, as
well as emissions from refineries and construction machinery. Includes
emissions from non-Major Power Producers auto-generation and
Combined Heat and Power.

Heat and
Buildings

Heat and
Buildings

Emissions from public, commercial, and residential buildings, including
domestic product use such as garden machinery and composting.

Domestic
Transport

Transport

Emissions from all forms of road and rail transport, domestic aviation and
domestic shipping (including fishing vessels).
Emissions from fuel used in international aviation and international
shipping, as measured by UK bunker fuel.

International
Aviation and
Shipping
Agriculture
Forestry and
Other Land Use

Sector definition

Natural
Resources, Waste
and F- Gases

Covers emissions from livestock, crop soils and agricultural machinery.
Emissions and removals from land use change, forestry, peatlands and
other carbon stock change from land use (e.g. in the biomass pool).

Resources and
Waste

Emissions from the treatment and disposal of solid and liquid waste and
landfill, including emissions from incineration not used to generate energy
(e.g. incineration of chemical waste).

Fluorinated
Gases (F-gases)

Fluorinated gas emissions, primarily from refrigeration, air‑conditioning,
heat pumps, aerosols, and high voltage switchgear.

Greenhouse
Gas Removals

314

Greenhouse Gas
Removals

Negative emissions from engineered removal technologies, including
direct air and bio-energy carbon capture and storage.

Technical Annex

Illustrative 2050 net zero scenarios
30. The Net Zero Strategy explores three
possible net zero scenarios in 2050 in chapter
2, building on the pathways developed for
the sixth carbon budget Impact Assessment.
These have been deliberately selected to
illustrate a wide range of outcomes for the
economy that are possible by 2050. However,
different outcomes within this range or beyond
this range are also possible.
31. This analysis has primarily two objectives:
a. First, to examine three different scenarios
of economy-wide decarbonisation to
understand the range of possible longterm outcomes and therefore inform the
short-term delivery pathways. Through
previous modelling and research, BEIS
has identified three areas of technology
and resource uncertainty likely to have a
substantial impact on the 2050 energy
system.26 The scenarios have been
developed in consultation with internal
experts to illustrate feasible avenues to
achieving net zero emissions based on:
•

The relative role of electrification and
hydrogen in fuel switching;

•

The role of land-use and bioenergy to
produce negative emissions; and

•

The role of further innovations to
address the hardest to abate sectors
of the economy.

b. Second, it confirms that all three scenarios
are consistent with the policies and
proposals set out in the Strategy to meet
the sixth carbon budget.
32. This section explains the methodology
that was used for this analysis and
summarises the differences between the
three scenarios. It also shows illustrative
sectoral emissions in 2050 and accompanying
deployment characteristics.

Overview of the methodology used
to develop the 2050 scenarios
33. The net zero scenario modelling primarily
uses the UK TIMES Model (UKTM), a leastcost, optimisation model covering all UK
emissions (including land use) and the UK
energy system over the period 2010 to 2060.27
The model includes assumptions about
technology costs, availability, performance,
and build rates.28 It also includes assumptions
for future fossil fuel prices and energy services
demand by end-use sector. These inputs are
pre-determined for each model run and do
not vary with deployment. Based on the input
assumptions, the model identifies the leastcost way of meeting a given GHG reduction
trajectory while also meeting assumed
end-use demand for energy services.
Further information on the methodology and
assumptions used in the UK TIMES model
can be found in Annex A.2 of the sixth carbon
budget impact assessment.29
34. An extensive exercise has been
undertaken to ensure UKTM is aligned with
the latest evidence base and assumptions
used across government. Where this was not
possible, off-model adjustments have been
made to the net zero scenarios.
35. A particular advantage of UKTM is
that it identifies the least-cost technology
pathway for a given set of assumptions,
taking account of interactions across energy
supply and end-use sectors over time. The
model is therefore useful for identifying which
technologies could be essential or important
in the long run for achieving a low cost,
net zero consistent energy system. It also
helps identify the appropriate sequencing of
abatement opportunities.

315

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
36. However, there are a number of limitations
to the modelling:

37. The three scenarios are
summarised below:

•

•

High electrification: explores the impact
of using widespread electrification to
support transport, heating, and industry
decarbonisation coupled with deep
decarbonisation of electricity supply.

•

High resource: explores the impact
of using low-carbon hydrogen more
extensively, particularly for decarbonising
buildings and heavy vehicles. It assumes
higher levels of tree-planting are
achievable, increasing the ‘negative
emissions’ available from land-use sinks.

•

High innovation: explores a world in
which successful innovations, such as
synthetic fuels and zero emission aircraft,
enable lower residual emissions to be
reached sooner in aviation. Higher capture
rates – above baseline assumptions –
increase the impact of carbon capture
technologies, particularly higher
deployment of direct air capture.

The model does not directly take
account of uncertainty of any kind over
future technology costs and availability.
Uncertainty is only displayed through
the range of outputs given by the
different scenarios.

•

Technology cost reductions over
time are based on fixed assumptions
and do not directly account for cost
reductions through widescale deployment
in the model. i.e. costs are not a
function of deployment.

•

No additional barriers beside cost and
technical build rates are considered,
no potential industrial benefits from
developing and deploying new low-carbon
technologies are considered. Modelling
does not consider any upside or downside
risks to the economy arising from
the transition.

•

Behavioural or other practical
considerations that might make certain
pathways more or less expensive to
achieve are not accounted for (other
than where they are reflected in costs
or build rates).

•

The model varies in detail by sector. In
some areas only high-level representations
are provided and the model is not spatially
disaggregated.

316

Technical Annex
38. The scenarios were constructed in the
UKTM by varying input assumptions for:
•

The extent to which technologies can
be rolled out. For example, in the high
electrification scenario 100% of buildings
are set to be heated by electricity in 2050,
whereas in the high resource scenario heat
pump deployment is constrained and this
figure drops to 40%.

•

Availability of resources and technologies.
For example, in the high resource scenario,
we assume 50kha afforestation per annum
by 2050 (compared to 30kha in the other
scenarios). Higher efficiency capture
technologies are only available in the high
innovation scenarios (for example CCUS
capture rates of 99% compared to 95% in
most cases in the other scenarios).

•

For sectors such as industry and aviation,
where the UKTM does not represent the
full range of known abatement options,
supplementary adjustments to emissions,
energy demand, and key deployment
requirements have been made. These have
been taken into account in the optimisation
of other sectors via the specification of the
emission targets.

39. Other assumptions were kept the same
across the scenarios. For instance, projections
of final demand for end-use sectors are
consistent with those used in the central
2037 delivery pathway and are the same
for each of the modelled 2050 scenarios.
Technology and resource cost assumptions,
including fossil fuel prices, are also the same
across each scenario. Sensitivity analysis
conducted as part of the sixth carbon budget
Impact Assessment showed that the impact
of economic growth and fossil fuel prices on
the technology mix in 2050 is relatively small,
therefore these effects were not considered
further.30 Finally, sector emissions to 2037
were aligned to those in the delivery pathway
described in the Strategy. For further key
assumptions by sector see the evidence base
section of this annex.
40. Table 4 shows the level of emissions in
2050 implied by each of the three illustrative
scenarios. All scenarios meet net zero in 2050,
with removals technologies compensating for
any residual emissions.

317

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Table 4: Illustrative total territorial emissions under the different scenarios
2050 illustrative emissions (MtCO2e)
Sectors

2019 emissions
(MtCO2e)

High
electrification

High resource

High
innovation

Power

58

3

2

1

Industry

78

3

3

10

Fuel Supply

26

0

5

8

Heat and Buildings

88

0

0

2

Domestic
Transport

122

3

4

5

International
Aviation and
Shipping

45

35

35

21

Agriculture and
LULUCF

63

20

14

21

Waste and F-gases

40

12

13

13

Greenhouse Gas
Removals

0

-75

-76

-81

Total emissions

520

0

0

0

41. Given the long-term scientific uncertainty
and to err on the side of caution, the analysis
above assumes AR5 with feedback GWPs.
On the basis of AR5 without feedback GWPs
the scenarios would reach c.-9 MtCO2e in
2050 as a result of primarily lower emissions
from methane. This uncertainty represents less
than 2% of the overall abatement requirement.
Because of this, detailed sensitivity analysis
on GWPs has not been carried out for the
purposes of this strategy. However, lower
GWPs could allow less reliance on removals
in 2050 thereby lowering the requirements for
sustainable biomass, or alternatively slightly
higher end-use sector emissions.

318

Characteristics of the 2050 scenarios
42. To illustrate the assumptions
underpinning the 2050 scenarios, Table 5
shows deployment characteristics for each
sector. These are illustrative of the levels of
deployment required for each of the three
scenarios. Not all technology deployment
required to meet net zero is represented.

Technical Annex

Table 5: Illustrative characteristics in 2050

Sector

Deployment assumptions

Unit

2019

2050
illustrative
range

Power

Electricity generation

TWh

320

610-690

Low carbon GB generation as a percentage of
total projected generation

%

56%

99-100%

Low carbon fuel switching*

TWh

110

190-210

Resource and energy efficiency savings

MtCO2e

0

13

Industry demand for industrial CCUS (not
including BECCS)

MtCO2e

0

6-9

Low carbon hydrogen production

TWh

0

240-500

Steam methane reformation with CCS (as a
percentage of total hydrogen generation)

%

0

0-75%

Electrolysis as a percentage of total hydrogen
generation

%

0

15-75%

Biomass gassification with CCS as a percentage
of total hydrogen generation

%

0

0-20%

Cumulative heat pumps installed domestically

Million
installations

0.2

12-28

Cumulative homes converted to 100% hydrogen

Million
homes

0

0-14

Demand reduction as a result of energy efficiency
measures

%

0

15-20%

Low carbon fuels* consumption as a percentage
of total fuel consumption in commercial buildings

%

62%

90-100%

Heat supplied via heat networks

TWh

14

70

Biomethane injected into gird

TWh

3

0-20

Total area of peatland under restoration

kha

n/a

380

Yearly area of afforestation UK

kha

13.6

30-50

Yearly area of perennial energy crop and short
rotation forestry planted

kha

0

53

Farmers engaging with low carbon farming
practices as a percentage of total farmers

%

60%

100%

Level of HFC consumption relative to a 2015
baseline level

%

63%

15%

Industry

Fuel Supply

Heat and
Buildings

Agriculture
and
LULUCF

Waste and
F-gases

319

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Sector

Deployment assumptions

Unit

2019

2050
illustrative
range

Greenhouse
Gas
Removals

BECCS (all technologies)

MtCO2e

0

52-58

DACCS

MtCO2e

0

18-29

ZEVs as a percentage of total car fleet

%

0.3%

96-97%

ZEVs as a percentage of total van fleet

%

0.2%

88-90%

ZEVs as a percentage of total HGV fleet

%

0%

95-97%

ZEVs as a percentage of total bus and coach
fleet

%

0.3%

91-95%

Low carbon fuels* use in road transport as a
percentage of total fuel use (in litres)

%

5%

30-60%

SAF use in domestic and international aviation as
a percentage of total fuel use (in tonnes)

%

0%

5-30%

Low carbon fuels use in domestic and
international shipping as a percentage of total
fuel use (in TWh)

%

0%

97%

GDP carbon intensity

tCO2e/
GDP
£m2020

194

0

GDP energy intensity

MWh/
GDP
£m2020

700

270-310

Transport
and IAS

Overall

*The table includes several deployment assumptions covering relevant low carbon fuels in different sectors. The low
carbon fuels included are the following: electricity, biofuels, solid biomass, hydrogen, ammonia, and methanol. All
these deployment assumptions include electricity and hydrogen both in the numerator and denominator, with the
exception of low carbon fuels used in road transport (from which electricity and hydrogen are completely excluded).

320

Technical Annex

Meeting the carbon budgets
43. This section sets out historic performance
against carbon budgets and future
performance implied by the delivery pathway,
including emissions broken down by sector
for each future carbon budget. Deployment
assumptions that illustrate some of the
real-world changes required to meet carbon
budgets are also presented.

44. The UK has overperformed on its carbon
budgets so far, by 37 Mt CO2e for the first
carbon budget and 384 Mt CO2e for the
second carbon budget. Table 6 shows the
current baseline projections for future carbon
budgets (reflecting policies as of August
2019),31 and also the overall pathway for
emissions as set out in the Net Zero Strategy.

Table 6: Projected emissions implied by pathway against current and future
carbon budgets
CB3

CB4

CB5

CB6 (incl. IAS)

Years covered

2018-2022

2023-2027

2028-2032

2033-2037

Baseline

2,499

2,052

1,889

2,029

Budget limit

2,544

1,950

1,725

965

NZS emissions
pathway

2,499

1,854

1,312

962

Performance
against carbon
budget

-45

-96

-413

-3

Uncertainty over future emissions
45. Table 7 shows an indicative annual range
over the sixth carbon budget period.32 The
lower and upper ranges are based on Monte
Carlo analysis of the EEP, conducted in 2018
and assessed to represent the best evidence
of the uncertainty in the projections for the
sixth carbon budget period.33 The analysis
reflects a 95% confidence interval around the
baseline to reflect uncertainty in future macro

trends (such as GDP, and population size),
uncertainty in the impacts of certain existing
policies on emissions and uncertainty in the
current evidence base on emissions (such as
land use emissions). It also uses regression
residuals to account for structural modelling
uncertainty in the EEP. The analysis does
not capture uncertainty in the policies and
proposals brought forward under the Strategy.

321

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
46. Due to accounting changes, further
emissions have recently come in scope of the
sixth carbon budget period. The Monte Carlo
analysis has therefore been augmented to
include these emissions. The range around
historical emissions for international aviation
and shipping is estimated based on statistical
volatility in historical emissions. Emissions
added following the adoption of the Wetlands
Supplement assume the uncertainty is
proportional to the overall uncertainty in the
LULUCF sector.34

47. The pathway is highly ambitious meaning
there are downside risks to the estimated
policy savings (for example, delays to delivery),
as well as upside risks (for example, no
long-run behavioural impacts are assumed
as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic).
Government will monitor progress against
the pathway as set out in the Embedding net
zero in Government chapter, and will prepare
further proposals and policies to enable the
carbon budgets to be met as necessary.

Table 7: Provisional indicative range of the carbon account over the sixth
carbon budget
2033

2034

2035

2036

2037

Upper

279

265

240

226

207

Central

232

215

190

171

153

Lower

193

177

150

131

112

48. Emissions across the period prior to the
sixth carbon budget are also uncertain: the
Government will provide further analysis in
future Energy and Emissions Projections.

Sectoral emissions over the
carbon budgets
49. Table 8 shows an indicative emissions
pathway, broken down by sector across the
fourth, fifth and sixth carbon budgets. The
fifth carbon budget figures are aligned with
the UK’s NDC, and 2030 values have been
used for this column. To reflect uncertainty
from macroeconomic trends and in underlying
baseline emissions, emissions for each
sector are shown as a range. These ranges
are calibrated to the uncertainty range
set out in the economy wide EEP Monte
Carlo analysis.35

322

50. Whilst the ranges below represent our
current assessment of the right trajectory
to meet our carbon budgets, developments
in climate science, accounting regulations,
baseline emissions, technological progress
and/or policy impacts may alter the expected
impact of policies set out in the strategy, or
the optimal distribution of policy effort across
sectors. Future climate strategies will update
this sectoral emissions pathway where
necessary using the latest evidence.

Technical Annex

Table 8: Sectoral emissions across the carbon budgets: MtCO2e per year
(using AR5 with feedback GWPs)
Sector

Current
(2019)

CB4
(average 2023-27)

NDC
(2030)

CB6
(average 2033-37)

Agriculture and LULUCF

63

51 to 57

44 to 52

38 to 48

Buildings

88

73 to 82

55 to 66

34 to 47

Domestic Transport

122

100 to 111

67 to 80

29 to 43

Fuel Supply

26

18 to 20

14 to 16

10 to 12

Industry

78

58 to 65

36 to 45

19 to 29

Power

58

28 to 31

14 to 17

9 to 11

Waste and F-gases

40

24 to 27

17 to 20

12 to 15

Greenhouse Gas
Removals

0

0 to 0

-12 to -1

-33 to -11

Intl Aviation and
Shipping*

45

(42 to 46)

(44 to 50)

39 to 46

Total (incl. IAS)

520

Total (excl. IAS)

476

192
371

262

*Figures in parentheses indicate that IAS is not counted towards that target

51. As set out above, there is some
uncertainty which set of Global Warming
Potentials the UK will adopt. We have
therefore also translated these pathways
using alternative AR5 without feedback
GWPs, assuming it were optimal in cost- and
non‑cost terms to implement the same set of
policies and proposals modelled in the AR5
with feedback pathways.

323

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Table 9: Sectoral emissions across the carbon budgets: MtCO2e per year
(using AR5 without feedback GWPs)
Current
Sector (2019)

CB4
NDC
CB6
(average 2023-27) (average 2030) (average 2033-37)

Agriculture and LULUCF

54

43 to 48

37 to 44

31 to 39

Buildings

88

73 to 82

55 to 66

34 to 47

Domestic Transport

122

100 to 111

67 to 80

29 to 43

Fuel Supply

25

18 to 20

13 to 16

10 to 11

Industry

78

58 to 65

36 to 45

19 to 29

Power

58

28 to 31

14 to 17

9 to 11

Waste and F-gases

34

21 to 23

14 to 17

10 to 13

Greenhouse Gas
Removals

0

-1 to 0

-12 to -1

-33 to -11

Intl Aviation and
Shipping*

44

(42 to 46)

(44 to 50)

39 to 46

Total incl. IAS

503

Total excl. IAS

458

182
359

251

* Figures in parentheses indicate that IAS is not counted towards that target36

Illustrative deployment assumptions
to meet the carbon budgets
52. To illustrate some of the deployment
assumptions underpinning the emissions
pathway, Table 10 below shows real-world
deployment assumptions for each sector. Not
all of the policies and proposals underlying
the delivery pathway are represented by
these assumptions. Ranges indicate where

324

values differ between the electrification and
hydrogen pathways set out in the strategy for
the heat and buildings sector. In some cases,
these assumptions represent early-stage
assessments based on maximum technical
potential. Given ongoing uncertainties, the
policy mix that will meet carbon budgets, and
related deployment assumptions, are subject
to change; these are illustrative and should not
be interpreted as government targets.

Technical Annex

Table 10: Deployment assumptions underpinning pathway
Sector

Deployment
assumptions

Unit

2019

2025

2030

2035

Power

Electricity generation

TWh

320

315

370

460*-510

Low carbon GB generation
as a percentage of total
projected generation
required in 2035

%

29%33%*

38%42%*

62%69%*

99%

Low carbon fuel switchinga

TWh

110

115

125

157

Resource and energy
efficiency savings

MtCO2e

0

1

10

11

Industry demand for
Industrial CCUS (not
including BECCS)b

MtCO2e

0

2

5

7

Low carbon hydrogen
production

TWh

0

10**

40

80-140*

Electrical power demand
from offshore oil and gas
installations as a percentage
of their total power demand

%

0%

0%

31%

43%

Cumulative heat pumps
installed domestically

Million
installations

0.2

1.1

4*- 4.3

6.9* 11.3

Cumulative homes
converted to 100%
hydrogen for heat

Million
homes

0

0

0-0.2*

0-4*

Yearly homes treated by new
domestic energy efficiency
measures

Million
homes

0

0.5

1

0.5

Low carbon fuelsa
consumption as a
percentage of total fuel
consumption in commercial
buildings (excluding heat
networks)

%

62%

63%

67%

78%81%*

Yearly heat supplied via heat
networks

TWh

14

16

22

29

Yearly biomethane injected
into the grid

TWh

3

8

12

12

Industry

Fuel Supply

Heat and
Buildings

325

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Sector

Deployment
assumptions

Agriculture
and LULUCF

Unit

2019

2025

2030

2035

Yearly area of peatland
under restoration in England

Ha

2,0005,000***

7,000

10,290

10,290

Yearly area of afforestation in
the UK

Ha

13,600

30,000

40,000

50,000

Yearly area of perennial
energy crop and short
rotation forestry planted

Ha

0

7,440

21,275

26,350

Farmers engaging with low
carbon farming practices as
a percentage of total farmers

%

60%

70%

75%

85%

Waste and
F-gases

Level of HFC consumption
relative to a 2015 baseline
level

%

63%

31%

21%

15%

Greenhouse
Gas Removals

BECCS and DACCS

MtCO2e

0

0

6

23

Domestic
transport

ZEVs as a percentage of
total car fleet

%

0.3%

6%

24%

53%

ZEVs as a percentage of
total van fleet

%

0.2%

2%

14%

40%

ZEVs as a percentage of
total HGV fleet

%

0%

0%

9%

37%

ZEVs as a percentage of
total bus and coach fleet

%

0.3%

9%

25%

48%

Single track kilometres
electrified per year

Km

0

350

650

650

Low carbon fuelsa use
in road transport as a
percentage of total fuel use
(in litres)

%

5%

7%

8%

8%

Journeys in towns and cities
that are cycled and walk
as a percentage of total
journeys in towns and cities

%

42%

46%

50%

55%

SAF use in domestic aviation
as a percentage of total fuel
use (in tonnes)

%

0%

1%

3%

6%

Low carbon fuels usea in
domestic shipping as a
percentage of total fuel use
(in TWh)

%

0%

0%

1%

42%

326

Technical Annex

Sector

Deployment
assumptions

International
Aviation and
Shipping (IAS)

Overall

Unit

2019

2025

2030

2035

SAF use in international
aviation as a percentage of
total fuel use (in tonnes)

%

0%

1%

3%

6%

Low carbon fuels*** use in
international shipping as a
percentage of total fuel use
(in TWh)

%

0%

0%

1%

28%

GDP carbon intensity

tCO2e/

194

144

93

62

700

600

480

380-400*

GDP
£m2020
GDP energy intensity

MWh/
GDP
£m2020

* Reflects deployment in hydrogen pathway.
** Figure reflects hydrogen demand in the mid-2020s (rather than 2025 specifically).
*** The 2019 range for peat reflects different estimates of peat restoration in England, including both public and
externally funded work.
a
The table includes several deployment assumptions covering relevant low carbon fuels in different sectors. The
low-carbon fuels included are the following: electricity, biofuels, solid biomass, hydrogen, ammonia and methanol. All
of these deployment assumptions include electricity and hydrogen both in the numerator and denominator, with the
exception of low-carbon fuels used in road transport (from which electricity and hydrogen are completely excluded).
b
Industrial carbon capture deployment starts in the mid-2020s, reaching a total of 6Mt in 2030 and 9Mt in 2035
including carbon capture from biomass use.

Costs and economic impacts of the transition
Costs of the transition
53. Table 11 shows the additional investment
costs for the indicative delivery pathway in
each of the future carbon budgets relative to a
baseline of existing policies. These represent
in-year capital expenditure requirements,
excluding financing costs, and do not cover
operational costs or savings, or policy costs.
Costs are expressed in real 2020 prices as

average annual values over the carbon budget
periods. The costs of the delivery pathway
remain highly uncertain and will depend
on factors such as technology costs and
fuel prices. Ranges, where given, represent
the implication of higher or lower demand
from end-use sectors consistent with the
electrification and hydrogen scenarios.

327

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Table 11: Estimates of additional investment requirements for Net Zero
Strategy pathway (£bn pa, undiscounted, 2020 prices)

Sector

Carbon Budget
3 (average
2020-2022)

Carbon Budget
4 (average
2023-2027)

Carbon Budget
5 (average
2028-2032)

Carbon Budget
6 (average
2033-2037)

Power*

1

7-8

11-22

12-23

Fuel Supply

0.3

2.0

1.3-2.3

0.6-1.9

Industry

0.0

0.9

1.1

0.9

Heat and
Buildings**

2

12

12

14

Transport

2

8

17

18

Natural
Resources, Waste,
and F-Gases37

0.6

1.2

1.7

2.6

Greenhouse Gas
Removals

0.0

0.7

1.6

1.7

CCUS (T&S
Infrastructure)

0.0

0.6

1.2-1.4

0.8-1.0

Total

5-6

32-33

48-59

52-61

*Figures exclude additional Transmission and Distribution Network investment requirements.
**Costs represent a scenario where heat is predominantly decarbonised via electrification through heat pumps.

54. Table 11 excludes operating costs to
avoid double counting (e.g. where CAPEX in
an energy supply sector is OPEX in an enduse sector). Over the same period, we could
see additional resource savings of around
£180 billion as a result of our reduced use of
oil/petroleum products and natural gas. This
has been calculated by multiplying the change
in energy demand (relative to the baseline) by
the corresponding long-run variable cost of
energy supply (LRVCs) from The Green Book.
This is based on the central price and the
savings could be higher or lower, depending
on how future prices evolve.

328

Technical Annex

Other economic and fiscal
considerations
Economic considerations
55. There are many economic impacts of
the transition to net zero to consider. As
shown above, there are significant capital
investment requirements, and although the
exact requirements are uncertain it is clear
that patterns of investment will have to
change. New jobs will also be created, and
these jobs may require different skills and
education. Consumption and production
behaviours will shift towards greener choices,
and different places and sectors in the UK
could face different economic opportunities
and challenges.
56. Previous cost benefit analysis of the
sixth carbon budget showed that there are
significant co-benefits to the transition to net
zero.38 As well as the benefits from reduced
greenhouse gas emissions, improvements to
air quality were valued at £35 billion to 2050,
fuel savings at £123 billion and other benefits
to natural capital at £5 billion. The net present
value of meeting the sixth carbon budget
and net zero target, compared to no further
action, was estimated as a net benefit of
£266 billion.39 This calculation does not include
many other potential co-benefits, such as
reduced noise pollution from cars, improved
health from walking and cycling and warmer
homes from energy efficiency measures, nor
indirect costs from macroeconomic impacts.
57. In terms of the macroeconomic impact of
the transition to net zero, the Office for Budget
Responsibility (OBR) finds that the costs of
failing to get climate change under control,
which relies on global effort, would be much
larger than those of bringing emissions down
to net zero.40 In terms of transition costs,
the OBR has presented scenarios in which
the level of UK GDP changes relative to the
baseline by between -4.6% and +1.6% by
2050, with a central estimate of -1.4% for
early action on climate change compared to

-4.6% for late action. These changes are small
when set against expected growth of over
50% in real GDP to 2050 compared to today’s
levels. Further information on the economic
impacts of the transition to net zero are set out
in the HMT Net Zero Review.41

Competitiveness
58. The transition to net zero can stimulate
innovation that increases domestic
competitiveness and global comparative
advantage for some UK industries, providing
potential export opportunities. Updated
internal analysis based on the Energy
Innovation Needs Assessment estimates that
just over half of the £60 billion GVA potential
from sectoral decarbonisation in 2050
comes from export related opportunities.42
However, there will also be risks to sectors
and industries susceptible to competitiveness
impacts, particularly those that are tradeexposed and/or carbon intensive. Where UK
firms lose market share to international firms
with lower environmental standards, there is a
risk of carbon leakage. There is little empirical
evidence of this occurring in the UK to date,
but risks could increase as further policy
is implemented.
59. Historically, the UK’s approach to
mitigating competitiveness impacts and
carbon leakage risk has been through issuing
free allowances under the EU ETS.43 This
approach has been carried over to the UK
ETS, and possible changes to free allowances
are currently under review.44 BEIS also
provides compensation to certain energy
intensive industries for the indirect emission
cost due to the UK ETS and some sectors
receive a reduction in energy consumption
tax via Climate Change Agreements. The
eventual impact of decarbonisation on firms at
risk will depend on future policy development,
particularly relating to the UK ETS.

329

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
60. The magnitude of competitiveness
effects in international markets is dependent
on global climate ambition as well as
domestic policy. If other countries, particularly
the UK’s trading partners, increase their
industrial decarbonisation ambition in line
with the UK’s, and face similar transition
impacts, then competitiveness effects will
be smaller. Similarly, where the UK’s path to
net zero creates export opportunities for UK
businesses, the size of these will depend on
the actions of the rest of the world. High global
climate ambition will result in a large market
for decarbonisation technologies and services
but may also result in more global competition
in those markets.

Fiscal considerations
61. The overall fiscal impacts of the transition
to net zero will depend on many as yet
unknown factors, including the financing
mechanisms used to fund the policies and
proposals set out in the Net Zero Strategy,
and the macroeconomic impacts of the
transition, for example through changes in
GDP growth or inflation. There are some
known fiscal impacts, such as the erosion of
direct tax receipts like fuel duty that depend
on carbon intensive activity, and increased tax
receipts from other policies, such as revenue
from the UK ETS.

330

62. HMT’s Net Zero Review45 and the OBR’s
recent fiscal risks report46 provide a more
detailed overview of the channels through
which the net zero transition can impact the
UK’s fiscal position, and the factors which
will determine the overall magnitude of this
impact. While noting uncertainties, the OBR
concluded that there could be significant fiscal
benefits from transitioning to net zero sooner
rather than later. However, governments public
spending will be dependent on the economic,
fiscal and decarbonisation context of the time.

Jobs
63. The policies and sectoral ambitions
across the Net Zero Strategy are estimated
to support up to 190,000 jobs in low carbon
and green sectors by the middle of the 2020s,
and up to 440,000 by 2030. The breakdown
of jobs by chapter is as follows. Information
on the methodology used to calculate these
numbers can be found in the evidence base
section of this annex.

Technical Annex

Table 12: Estimate of jobs supported in Net Zero Strategy pathways, by
sector and date
Sector

Jobs supported by 2024/5

Jobs supported in 2030

Power

59,000

120,000

Fuel Supply

N/A

10,000

Industry

5,000

54,000

Heat and buildings

100,000

175,000

Transport

22,000

74,000

Natural resources, waste and
F-gases (forestry only)

2,000

2,000

Greenhouse Gas Removals

N/A

N/A

Total

190,000

440,000

64. The Ten Point Plan for a Green industrial
Revolution47 published in November 2019
set out plans to support up to 250,000
jobs by 2030, which was based on specific
sectors included within the Ten Point Plan.
The figures in this Net Zero Strategy include
areas not covered by the Ten Point Plan, such
as solar and onshore wind. In several cases,
most notably around Heat and Buildings and
Transport, figures have been updated since
the Ten Point Plan was announced.

65. Government has also set out its
ambition to pivot towards a green economy
supporting up to 2 million green jobs by
2030. This is a wider ambition which includes
areas of economic activity not included in
the Net Zero Strategy but which support
other environmental goals, such as climate
adaptation and the circular economy.

Wider impacts of the transition to net zero
66. Section 10 of the Climate Change Act
lists various factors that must be taken into
consideration by all decisions relating to
carbon budgets, while Section 13 requires
that the policies and proposals set out in
the Net Zero Strategy as a whole contribute
to sustainable development. These factors
have been taken into account in relation to
proposals and policies that will enable the
UK to meet its carbon budgets, as set out
throughout this annex and in the main body
of the Strategy.

331

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Table 13: Summary of wider considerations
Consideration in
Net Zero Strategy

Conclusions

Scientific knowledge

See Climate Science
Annex

The scientific case for strong action on climate change
remains definitive.

Technology

See Journey to Net Zero,
sector chapters, Technical
Annex

The latest evidence on relevant climate technologies
has been used for all analysis across the strategy.

Economic

See Technical Annex, Why
Net Zero, Green Jobs,
Skills, and Industries,
Investment, Innovation,
Green Choices and Local
Climate Action chapters

There are many economic and competitiveness
impacts of the transition, some of which are positive
and some negative. We make no overall conclusion.

Fiscal

See Technical Annex

The full fiscal impact of the transition is not yet known
and will depend on varied policy decisions and
economic outcomes.

Sustainable
development

See Reducing Emissions
across the Economy
chapters, Technical Annex,
Embedding Net Zero
chapter

There are both positive and negative natural capital
impacts associated with emissions reduction policies
but the overall contribution to sustainable development
is likely positive. Other aspects of sustainable
development are addressed in the economic, fiscal
and social sections.

Energy policy

See Journey to Net Zero
and Power chapters, and
Technical Annex

Delivering our carbon budgets has the potential to
reduce demand for gas, coal, oil and transport fuels
which could improve security of supply by diversifying
away from primarily imported fossil fuels. Other
measures will mean increases in electrification and
the simultaneous deep decarbonisation of electricity
supply, which carries security of supply risks.

Factor

Estimations of the future energy and carbon intensity of
the economy are presented in Table 10 of the Technical
Annex.
Social

See Technical Annex,
Green Choices, and
Buildings chapters

Price and bill impacts will depend on electricity market
developments and consumption patterns. Policies that
improve energy efficiency of homes will reduce bills
and benefit fuel poor households.

IAS

See Technical Annex,
Transport chapter

IAS emissions will be included from the sixth carbon
budget onwards and will use the bunker fuel sales
method to calculate emissions. Projected IAS
emissions are set out in Table 8.

International and
European

See International climate
leadership and Why Net
Zero chapters

The UK has world leading ambition on climate change
and is committed to advancing global climate action.
The UK has now left the EU and is no longer bound by
EU climate policies.

332

Technical Annex

Factor

Consideration in
Net Zero Strategy

Devolved
circumstances

See sector chapters and
Technical Annex

67. The following section considers two of
these impacts in more detail: sustainable
development, which is considered through
analysis of the effects of policies and
proposals on natural capital; and social
considerations, including the potential impacts
on energy bills and fuel poverty.

Sustainable development and
natural capital
68. Sustainable development concerns the
stability and prosperity of society, and its
capacity to provide for future generations.
Sustainable development also incorporates
social, economic, and environmental
dimensions of sustainability. The Act requires
carbon budget proposals and policies
as a whole to contribute to sustainable
development. The main outcomes of the
policies and proposals in this Strategy
will have a positive impact on the UK’s
contribution to the global Sustainable
Development Goals, in particular goal 7,
targeting affordable and clean energy, and
goal 13, targeting climate action.
69. In this section, we assess the
sustainability implications of the net
zero transition in terms of its impact on
the continuation and improvement of
environmental functions, and stability and
renewal of natural assets. This is most relevant
to the Sustainable Development Goals 6, 14
and 15, which target protection of water and
life on land and marine habitats.

Conclusions
The NZS pathway analysis includes modelling of the
scope to reduce emissions in each nation, considering
their differing circumstances. These assumptions
are broadly in line with the CCC’s distributions of
abatement by nation. Key assumptions are outlined in
the evidence base section below.

70. In line with HM Treasury Green Book, a
natural capital perspective is taken to analyse
these implications, whereby the impact of
policies and proposals on the natural assets
on which the economy depends is assessed.48
It is not yet possible to provide a complete
assessment of the delivery implications of
policies and proposals, as many are still
subject to designs and implementations upon
which the impacts are dependent. The extent
that the natural capital impacts are mitigated
will be dependent on the options considered
in policy specific delivery analysis.
71. To assess the potential natural capital
impacts of a policy, a series of screening
questions are used.49 Following this, the main
benefits and risks associated with net zero
policies are listed for different natural capital
stocks. This is an indicative assessment of the
natural capital impacts due to the limitations
described above. As such, the large majority
of measures in this strategy require further
natural capital assessment. All policies will be
assessed for natural capital benefits and risks
in their impact assessments and business
cases according to Green Book guidance.
This includes considering the implications
of policies for natural assets and any
associated effects on wider economic welfare.
More information on the natural capital
approach can be found in the Green Book
supplementary guidance and the Enabling a
Natural Capital Approach guidance.50

333

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
72. Delivery of net zero policies and proposals
will need to consider the UK’s other legally
binding environmental commitments (for
example, new legally binding targets stemming
from the Environment Bill), and any trade-offs
against these acknowledged and mitigated
through careful planning policies and
actions can be designed that deliver multiple
outcomes in support of the UK’s net zero
and 25 Year Environment Plan ambitions.
For instance, the planting of broadleaf trees
and restoration of peatland or grassland
can deliver carbon sequestration as well as
environmental benefits including improved
biodiversity and water quality, if done in the
right way. Conversely, certain interventions
such as planting of maize for biomass or
food may risk soil health and water quality.
It will be important to assess the wider
impacts of proposed net zero actions and
seek synergies with environmental ambitions
wherever possible, so that the twin challenges
of biodiversity loss and climate change are
tackled in an efficient way.
73. The independent Natural Capital
Committee defined natural capital as ‘those
elements of the natural environment which
provide valuable goods and services to
people’.51 Nature underpins the UK’s economy
and society: the energy, food, and water we
consume; the air we breathe; our access
to green space; and biodiversity, which is
crucial in underpinning all our ecosystem and
abiotic services, and in maintaining ecological
function.52 Nature is a major economic sector
in its own right – as a productive asset it
provides market and non-market services of
£25 billion each year.53

334

74. The policies and proposals taken together
within the Net Zero Strategy are expected to
have a significant net benefit to natural capital
and thus sustainable development. Moving
away from i) fossil fuels towards a greater
share of renewable energy, ii) petrol and diesel
cars towards green alternatives such as
electric vehicles iii) gas boilers to lower carbon
heating sources and iv) high carbon land
uses towards afforestation and other landbased carbon dioxide removals, are just a few
examples that will provide significant benefits.
75. However, some negative impacts to
some natural capital stocks are likely to arise
from realising climate targets; impacts will
likely be specific and localised. For example,
the development of BECCS technology
could lead to a rise in PM2.5 released in
these areas. The direction of impact from
the significant land use change required to
meet net zero will depend on how and where
this change is enacted, with a systemic and
spatial approach more likely to deliver on net
zero while providing natural capital benefits.
Further in-depth exploration of the natural
capital impacts of specific policies and policy
mixes will need to be undertaken through
the normal channels of Impact Assessments
and Business Cases, to ensure trade-offs are
managed and impacts mitigated.
76. Air Quality: As climate change and air
pollution have many of the same contributing
emission sources, the decarbonisation of the
UK economy offers major opportunities to
significantly reduce air pollution and therefore
improve human health and reduce the impact
of some air pollutants on ecosystems. This is
primarily driven through the reduction of petrol
and diesel cars towards green alternatives,
as well as the continual shift away from fossil
fuels in heat and power generation. However,
some policies and proposals could result
in significant negative air quality impacts at
both regional and local scales, for example
emissions of fine particulate matter from
biomass combustion, ammonia from the use
of anaerobic digestion, and NOx emissions

Technical Annex
from hydrogen combustion in domestic
or industrial settings. These are likely to
impact our ability to reach statutory national
emissions ceilings, increase exposure to
harmful pollutants and cause some uneven
health burdens. Furthermore, the impacts of
air pollution can also impact the delivery of net
zero. For example, all of England’s forests and
peatlands continue to be damaged by harmful
emissions – particularly ammonia – which
impact their ability to provide the ecosystem
services required to meet net zero, including
carbon sequestration and flood mitigation.
Historic pollution loading across all habitats
may also need to be ameliorated to maximise
the potential of restoring them to meet the
biodiversity targets in the Environment Bill.
Further work will be undertaken to assess this
and provide advice on tailoring our pathway
to minimise these impacts. Continuous
improvements in emission requirements and
innovation in abatement technologies will also
be necessary to deliver a pathway to net zero
that maximises environmental benefits.

78. Biodiversity: In the long-term, net
zero policies, for example, afforestation
and peatland restoration, can be positive
for biodiversity, preservation, connectivity,
resilience and reducing ecological stress
caused by climate change. However,
biodiversity and habitats are spatially explicit,
meaning locations and extent of future
policies must seek to minimise any negative
impacts, including displacement, air and
noise pollution, and habitat loss, for example
through housing or industry development.
This could be minimised through further
work on net gain principles which would
seek to leave the environment in a better
position. Other risks include ensuring land
use changes (i.e. afforestation, biomass
feedstocks, settlement expansion) do not lead
to biodiversity loss. Mitigating actions and
trade-offs will be considered when designing
policies for reaching climate targets, including
for low carbon technologies, greenhouse gas
removals, marine policies, land management,
and agricultural intensification.

77. Recreation: Achieving climate targets
could have positive impacts for recreation
and the provision of landscape amenity,
with a transition to a low carbon economy
providing spaces to enjoy nature. This will
primarily be driven by new woodland creation
for recreation and forestry more widely (where
access permitted), woodland management
and restoring peatlands. Green transport
will also provide the opportunity to regularly
access green spaces, parks and woodlands.
Some policies may cause landscape issues for
example, solar and onshore wind generation.

79. Floods: Global temperature rise is
leading to increased precipitation levels
within the UK. There are a number of naturebased solutions such as the creation of new
woodlands, planting of biomass crops such
as willow, increased levels of upland peatland
restoration, and strategically located natural
flood management measures which can have
positive impacts on flood risk management.
For example, increased upland water storage
improves the capacity of the UK’s waterbodies
to prevent floods downstream. This will have
varied benefits through reducing damages
from floods to property, agricultural land
and health, and reduced carbon emissions
from floods. Conversely, rewetting lowland
peatlands may reduce the water storage
capacity of those landscapes with possible
impacts on local flood risk.

335

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
80. Water availability and quality: Whilst
many policies have positive impacts on
water availability and quality, for example
through upland peatland restoration and
strategic planting of trees, some low carbon
technologies are water-intensive and largescale implementation could result in pressures
on water demand. For example, nuclear power
and hydrogen production require high levels
of water input for cooling and electrolysis,
respectively and certain biomass crops (for
use in BECCS) have high water demand. This
is set against a backdrop of increasing global
water scarcity in a changing climate. The UK
is no exception, with increasing likelihood
of warmer, drier summers. Therefore, water
demand both regionally and nationally should
be considered at a systems level, to ensure
sustainable demand.
81. Raw materials: Resource efficiency
policies will have a net benefit to pressures
on raw material availability, reducing raw
material demand and consumption. Reduced
resource extraction and processing will
also benefit other natural capital assets. For
example, 90% of global biodiversity loss
and water stress is caused by resource
extraction and processing.54 Moving towards
a circular economy, where priority is placed
on extending the lifetime and lifecycle of a
product through sharing, reusing, repairing,
redesign and recycling, is likely to have a
positive impact on a number of natural capital
stocks, primarily water quality and availability,
air quality and reducing pressures on land use.

336

82. Rare metals: Materials are finite. Some
low carbon technologies are dependent on
critical raw materials, many of which are
rare, found in unique locations and in high
demand globally, for example cobalt, lithium
and nickel. Many of these rare metals are
sourced internationally and extraction of them
may place pressure on the natural capital
stock in the country of origin. There are risks
associated with overreliance on specific
technologies where raw material scarcity
may grow and geopolitics may determine
access, for example, rare earth elements
such as neodymium for use in magnets.
These risks will be assessed in relevant policy
delivery analysis.
83. Land Use: Land is finite. Meeting climate
targets will require significant and competing
demands from land, for example, for food,
shelter, goods and service production,
ecosystem services and greenhouse gas
abatement. This will result in large changes
to land use and management. The pathway
in the Net Zero Strategy is reliant on land use
change linked to tree planting, peat restoration
and growing perennial energy crops or short
rotation forestry for use as biomass. This
change will impact on the extent and condition
of natural capital assets and the ecosystem
services they provide. The direction of impact
(positive or negative) and its magnitude will
depend on how and where land conversion
happens. A systemic and spatial approach
to land use, that considers net zero, socioenvironmental objectives, and various socioeconomic factors such as population and
economic growth, is necessary to enact land
use changes that delivers net zero as well as
environmental outcomes in line with the 25
Year Environment Plan. Such an approach
enables trade-offs to be managed among
different objectives while facilitating win-win
outcomes- for instance with flood protection
and recreation.

Technical Annex

Social considerations
84. Over the last decade there have been
changes in the underlying costs of energy bills,
which have been mitigated through energy
efficiency measures, helping consumers
to use less energy. Electricity prices have
trended upwards due to rising network costs
and support for low carbon infrastructure
and vulnerable households. Gas prices have
fluctuated due to international wholesale gas
prices, which in recent months have been
particularly volatile.
85. Government energy saving schemes
have been targeted towards low-income or
vulnerable households, and the retail energy
price cap has helped protect those customers
on default energy tariffs. Steps have also
been taken to protect industries most
exposed to the UK’s relatively higher industrial
electricity prices.
86. The policies set out in the Net Zero
Strategy will help insulate consumers from
the over-reliance on fossil fuels which they
face today, and help to shield households,
business, and the wider economy from the
destabilising effects of this reliance.
87. How electricity and gas bills will change
on the path to net zero depends on factors
such as technology costs, patterns of
consumer energy use and the government’s
gradual approach to rebalancing where
social and policy costs fall. The nature of
costs in a smart, clean energy system will be
different. The largest part of the electricity bill
is currently the cost to energy suppliers from
buying power. This cost has traditionally been
determined by the underlying price of gas or
coal, but this is changing. Gas will continue
to play a role in setting the electricity price for
some years to come but, over time, will do so
less frequently, as more and more low carbon
generation (such as wind and solar) connect
to the electricity system - consistent with the
commitment to a fully decarbonised power
system by 2035. This will help put downward
pressured on wholesale electricity prices.

88. Patterns of energy consumption will also
change. Most households and businesses are
likely to increase their use of electricity, but
reduce gas and petrol/diesel consumption,
as they shift to low carbon forms of transport
and heating (such as electric vehicles
and heat pumps). It is essential to ensure
that price incentives are fair and help
support this transition away from relying on
fossil fuel prices.
89. It will remain the case that households
and businesses who install energy saving
measures will reap significant savings.
90. As we progress towards net zero, the
Government is committed to ensuring the
costs of decarbonising the energy system
are fair and affordable for all energy users.
We are considering both the benefits and the
costs of different pathways holistically across
the economy and will work with industry and
consumers to keep costs down.
91. The impact of decarbonisation on
progress in tackling fuel poverty will be
determined by changes in electricity and
fuel prices, and higher energy efficiency in
the housing stock. In particular, policies to
improve energy efficiency in homes - such as
the Social Housing Decarbonisation Fund,
Home Upgrade Grant, Energy Company
Obligation and proposals on Minimum Energy
Efficiency Standards - will help to improve
the building performance for the homes of
those in or at risk of fuel poverty. The Warm
Homes Discount will support fuel poor homes
through reduced bill costs. Fuel poverty is a
devolved matter. In England we are committed
to our target for fuel poor households, as far
as reasonably practicable, to be living in a
home rated EPC Band C or better by 2030.
Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland have
their own fuel poverty targets and are also
working to improve the energy efficiency of
their building stock.

337

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Evidence base
Sectoral evidence

Power
BEIS’ Dynamic Dispatch Model (DDM) has been used to generate technically feasible
pathways that are consistent with achieving the NDC in 2030, the sixth carbon budget
in 2033-37 and net zero in 2050.55 This model was developed by BEIS and is used for all
power sector analysis within the department. This includes the Modelling 2050 – Electricity
System Analysis report that was published with the Energy White Paper and the Energy
and Emissions projections.56 It was also used for the power sector analysis in the CCC’s
Sixth Carbon Budget report although the CCC used their own assumptions and off-model
adjustments for this.57 Assumptions for the Northern Ireland power sector demand and
emission pathway are based on the CCC’s Sixth Carbon Budget advice.
The DDM relies on many exogenous assumptions and inputs, and results can be sensitive
to changes in these assumptions. This includes using electricity demand from UKTM and
other sectors analysis and evidence on different technologies costs and characteristics
from BEIS’ generation costs report.58 Both full pathway runs and single year analysis is
used to underpin the strategy set out in the power sector chapter.
Distribution Network outcomes are modelled in the Distributions Networks Model (DNM).
The DNM conducts electricity power flow analysis across 10 representative regional
networks to estimate future distribution network constraints (thermal violations and voltage
imbalances). The results of the constraint analysis are then fed into a separate investment
model to calculate reinforcement costs up to 2050.
Investment costs for power plant generation capacity and flexible assets are calculated
from the DDM based on technological costs assumptions. Transmission and Distribution
Network costs have been calculated separately. The costs for networks provided are in
Allowed Revenues terms. Allowed Revenue estimates are the costs that network operators
will be allowed to recover annually – as decided by Ofgem as part of their RIIO price
control process. These are therefore the network costs that will be passed through each
year. They do not represent the total value of investment in assets.
The 2050 illustrative scenarios represent the power sector at a less granular level than
DDM. Supplementary adjustments and results were validated by DDM but should not
be read as predictive of the optimal technology mix in 2050. For a detailed assessment
of potential scenarios for the 2050 electricity system please consult the Modelling
2050: electricity system analysis published alongside the Energy White Paper.59 The
high electrification scenario assumes no hydrogen availability for power to illustrate an
alternative power sector trajectory.

338

Technical Annex

Fuel Supply and Hydrogen
Hydrogen: The hydrogen demand needed to meet the sixth carbon budget in industry,
power, buildings and transport was estimated as set out in the evidence base sections
for those sectors. The hydrogen production capacity needed to meet this demand has
been calculated assuming hydrogen production plants run at a 95% load factor. Evidence
on hydrogen supply and demand has also been drawn from the Hydrogen Strategy:
further detail can be found in the Hydrogen Strategy analytical annex.60, 61 Estimates of
hydrogen production costs are based on the evidence set out in the hydrogen production
cost report.62
Upstream Oil and Gas: The pathway for upstream oil and gas was developed using the
OGA’s projected abatement from offshore electrification and flaring.
Estimates of potential abatement from offshore electrification (scope 1 emissions only)
were developed using the best available data provided to the OGA by industry as of
August 2021, and assumes that there will be a mixture of some installations being partially
electrified and some being fully electrified (the list of these installations was provided by
industry). Fully electrified installations were estimated, in line with industry representatives’
assessment, to have 70% of power demand provided by electrification, while partially
electrified ones have 43%. Additionally, it is assumed that project phasing is one year
and that electrification of the installation would not affect previously reported economic
cessation of production dates.
The estimate of GHG emissions abatement via flaring reduction from offshore oil and gas
infrastructure was developed assuming that zero routine flaring will be in place across all
UKCS assets in 2030. Routine flaring is assumed to be broadly consistent with category
1 flaring (now defined by the OGA as category A flaring). Future expected flare volumes
were calculated by subtracting the routine element of flaring from total anticipated flaring
per facility after 2030, with data taken from the UK Stewardship Survey. Flared gas values,
in both mass and volume units, have been converted to CO2 emissions using emission
factors observed in published datasets (e.g. EEMS).63
Capex assumptions for Upstream Oil and Gas abatement measures have been sourced
from the CCC’s Sixth Carbon Budget advice. The overall cost profile has been calculated
by BEIS and is aligned to the deployment trajectory underpinning the sector’s illustrative
emissions pathway. This is an early analysis with significant uncertainties. Through
discussion with the OGA BEIS is confident that these estimates are in the right order of
magnitude, however actual costs might end up being higher.
Hydrogen and other fuel supply assumptions for 2050 are aligned with those used in the
Sixth Carbon Budget Impact Assessment. The level of curtailment available for electrolysis
was taken directly from the power sector modelling.

339

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Industry
A model of the UK industrial sector called Net Zero Industrial Pathways (NZIP) has been
used to generate a technically feasible pathway to achieve a net zero industry sector by
2050. The model was developed by Element Energy for BEIS and the Climate Change
Committee (CCC)64 and was used to underpin the manufacturing and construction sector
analysis in the CCC’s Sixth Carbon Budget report65 and the Government’s Industrial
Decarbonisation Strategy (IDS),66 published in March 2021. The industry pathway required
to reach net zero is based on the IDS National Networks scenario but achieves a faster
trajectory through earlier decarbonisation of the Iron and Steel sector and increased CCS
ambition by 2030. The model calculates the least cost pathway for a range of technologies,
assessed on their capital and operating costs, along with cost reductions over time due
to technology learning, and a number of key constraints impacting their deployment (e.g.
technology readiness level, hydrogen and CO2 transport and storage availability, supply
chain capacity).
The 2050 scenario analysis includes supplementary adjustments to align the UKTM
emissions, energy demands and CCS requirements with the evidence base in NZIP IDS
2050 scenarios. In the high electrification and high resource scenarios these align with the
National Networks scenario, whilst the high innovation scenario is more representative of
the Cluster Networks scenario.

Heat and Buildings
Both heat and buildings scenarios are developed to be consistent with completely
decarbonising buildings by 2050 to meet a net zero target. With the assumption that a
typical heating appliance has a lifetime of 15 years, this implies that no new fossil fuel
heating systems can be installed after 2035. The high electrification scenario assumes
that hydrogen is not available as an option for heating buildings, so the level of heat
pump deployment grows from its current level of around 35,000 in 2020 to be able to
meet the turnover of fossil fuel systems in 2035. In scenarios involving hydrogen, heat
pump deployment meets the common ambition of 600,000 heat pumps by 2028, and
further growth is dependent on the level of hydrogen deployment to generate the same
level of carbon savings between scenarios. Installation of energy efficiency measures and
deployment of low carbon heat networks is assumed to be same in all scenarios.
Domestic Energy Efficiency: The domestic energy efficiency modelling was carried
out using the National Household Model.67 This model estimates the impact of installing
different measures in different properties by applying the Standard Assessment
Procedure68 to a representative sample of the housing stock based on the English Housing
Survey.69 Further adjustments are made to modelled savings to account for factors such
as the real-life performance of measures and people heating their homes to a more
comfortable temperature when their energy bills are reduced. Cost data for different
measures comes from a variety of published sources, as well as some internal data.70, 71, 72
The deployment profile for measures was estimated based on current and planned policies
and proposals.
340

Technical Annex

Non-Domestic Buildings - Commercial and public: The sixth carbon budget pathway for
commercial and public sector buildings was created using BEIS Non-Domestic Buildings
Model (NDBM). This models the deployment of low carbon heating and energy efficiency
measures in non-domestic buildings. The NDBM uses building stock characteristics
and potential energy efficiency information from the Building Energy Efficiency Survey
(BEES) dataset.73 Data on energy consumption and emissions come from the Digest of
UK Energy Statistics, Energy and Emissions Projections, and ECUK.74, 75, 76 The model has
been supplemented with updated information on off-gas grid buildings from the Nondomestic National Energy Efficiency Data-Framework (ND-NEED); and updated cost and
efficiency assumptions for Heating Ventilation and Cooling (HVAC) technologies in nondomestic buildings.77 Modelling assumptions for public sector buildings have been further
refined through monitoring the on-going rollout of phase 1 and 2 of the Public Sector
Decarbonisation Scheme.
Products Policy: For products policies, as well as the sources listed above, additional
data is taken from the ONS, consultation with trade associations and research provided
by external contractors to develop the evidence base. The average energy consumption
of products in the pathway are compared to the market average to calculate energy
savings, taking into account product lifetime, usage and different technology types. Costs
associated with products price increases, staff labour and training and installation costs
are also taken into account, as well as interaction with EU and international trade and
product regulations.
Domestic Heat Pumps: Deployment of domestic heat pumps is based on simple analysis
of the residential stock, segmenting homes by heating fuel, and considering natural
replacement cycles. The trajectory of heat pumps is based on estimates of deployment
from current and planned policies, supply chain growth required to meet phasing out of
new fossil fuel heating systems, and use of the natural replacement cycle to remove all
fossil fuel heating in homes by 2050. Assumptions on appliance costs and performance,
and on potential supply chain growth, are based on published research.78, 79, 80 Assumptions
on the current building stock and heat demand are from the NHM and domestic NEED.81, 82
Assumptions on new build homes are based on DHLUC’s 2019 FHS Consultation stage
Impact Assessment - these were produced externally by consultants and an independent
consortium.83 These are for appraisal purposes only, and are not an official forecast of
housing supply.
Hydrogen: Deployment of hydrogen for heat in buildings up to the sixth carbon budget
has been modelled using a spatial analysis approach considering the metered gas
demand from residential, commercial and public buildings within an expanding radius
around potential industrial cluster sites producing hydrogen. Spatial gas demand has been
derived from NEED data and assumptions on rollout rate have been taken from the CCC’s
residential heat decarbonisation scenarios from their Sixth Carbon Budget advice.84, 85, 86
Additional assumptions on overall demand for scaling are from DUKES.87

341

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Heat Networks: Deployment of heat networks has been derived from the expected impact
of capital support and regulation, informed by the heat network opportunity areas.88 The
analysis appraises the impact of low-carbon heat network policies, and on fuel demand
relative to a predominately gas-fired counterfactual, to estimate carbon savings. The costs
technical assumption come from a AECOM report, but a number of assumptions have
been updated since using learning from the Heat Network Investment Projects (HNIP).89, 90
Biomethane: Plant deployment scenarios are based on a combination of historic
deployment under the Renewable Heat Incentive (RHI), and commercial intelligence.
Heat generated is estimated from plant deployment scenarios and using estimates
for biomethane injection as proportion of capacity.91 The internal BEIS Biomass Heat
Pathways Tool provides assumptions on biogeneration emissions, feedstock costs,
capex and opex costs.92 These capex and opex costs have also been verified against
cost information collected through market intelligence, the Non-Domestic RHI Evaluation,
and a review of AD plant costs commissioned by BEIS and awarded to the National
Non-Food Crops Centre (NNFCC). Rothamsted Research has provided assumptions
on upstream carbon savings, linked to diverting feedstocks from counterfactual uses to
AD, and ammonia impacts.93 Downstream carbon savings, linked to the displacement of
natural gas with biomethane, are estimated using emissions factors provided in the HMT
Green Book supplementary guidance.94 Fertiliser savings are valued using the average of
fertiliser prices published by the Agriculture and Horticulture Development Board across
multiple years.95 Full methodology and assumptions can be found in the final stage impact
assessment for the Green Gas Support Scheme.96
The 2050 UKTM scenarios represent the housing stock at a less granular level but have
been calibrated to the sectoral evidence base. The high electrification scenario assumes
no availability of hydrogen for heating, the high resource scenario limits the deployment of
electric heating, whilst the high innovation scenario is left to optimise outcomes.

Transport
Domestic Transport: The pathway for domestic transport covers road transport, rail,
domestic shipping and domestic aviation. The Net Zero Strategy pathway for road
transport, rail and domestic aviation was developed using projections from the recently
published Transport Decarbonisation Plan (TDP).97 These projections were produced using
a range of models and analysis, including the National Transport Model (road transport),
Traction Decarbonisation Network Strategy (rail), and the Aviation model, adjusted for
decarbonising transport measures.98 The forecasts presented in the TDP considered a
number of scenarios. The Net Zero Strategy pathway for road transport, rail and domestic
aviation assumes an ambitious policy package within the range of policy outcomes
explored in the TDP. These emissions savings are applied to a central demand scenario.
The Net Zero Strategy pathway for domestic shipping is based on research commissioned
by the Department for Transport (DfT) – see below for further details.

342

Technical Annex

International Aviation and Shipping: The Net Zero Strategy pathway for international
aviation was developed using projections from the TDP and the Jet Zero Consultation.99
This uses the same Aviation model and assumptions as used for the domestic aviation
projections. The DfT’s Aviation model is an established suite of interrelated components
used to produce forecasts for aviation demand at the national level, and the associated
passenger numbers, aircrafts and CO2 emissions from flights departing from UK airports.100
Three abatement measures are considered within the modelling; system efficiencies,
sustainable aviation fuels (SAF), and zero emission aircraft.
As with the Net Zero Strategy pathway for domestic shipping, the pathway for international
shipping is based on research commissioned by the Department for Transport (DfT).101 For
both pathways, the estimates from this research have been adjusted to align them with
the latest UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics.102 Therefore, the pathways
for domestic shipping and international shipping are consistent with the definitions of
domestic shipping and international shipping used in these national statistics.103 Given the
emerging nature of zero emission shipping fuels, the NZS pathways for domestic shipping
and international shipping should be interpreted as a possible scenario for meeting the
government’s commitment to achieving net zero in maritime rather than estimates of the
impact of specific policies.
The illustrative 2050 scenarios rely on the same evidence base for transport as the Sixth
Carbon Budget Impact Assessment with the exception of the high innovation scenarios,
where modelling updates on aviation to reflect DfT’s Jet Zero consultation high ambition
scenario, and the scenarios for shipping which have been aligned with the NZS pathways
described above. To support the sustainable fuel production requirements additional
assumptions have been taken from the Advanced Gasification Technology review.104

Natural Resources and Waste
Agriculture: The agriculture emissions trajectory is based on estimates of maximum
technical GHG mitigation potential (MTP) for each technology from the Clean Growth
through Sustainable Intensification (CGSI) Project and building upon previous work by the
CCC. MTP quantifies the impact if all farms which could technically adopt a measure do
so, whilst considering any current uptake to avoid double counting.105 MTP was derived
from expert review of published literature and modelling to scale experimental data to
national level. These estimates have been independently peer reviewed. CGSI used the
MTP values to derive the trajectory based on ambitious but feasible deployment rates.
The trajectory was informed by academic, industry and policy experts to reflect barriers,
technology readiness and R&D lead in times.
Additional stretch options were modelled through Defra analysis using CGSI and CCC
data, generally through adjustments to implementation rates. Additional modelling
addressing agricultural mobile machinery aligned to CCC analysis in its Sixth Carbon
Budget Report. England only data was scaled to a UK basis using the relative emission
share between England and the Devolved Administrations as an estimator of Devolved
Administration potential, pending publication of the Devolved Administrations pathways.
343

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

The UKTM modelling for the 2050 scenarios uses the same evidence base as the
agriculture emissions trajectory. A set of crop and livestock measures are characterised by
their cost and maximum technical potential to reduce emissions, and these assumptions
are the same across the three scenarios.
Biomass: The biomass analysis is an indicative technical assessment of potential carbon
abatement assuming optimal species/site/climate matching and a relatively simplistic
approach to modelling carbon removals. Five biomass crop categories were modelled,
deployed in fixed proportions: exotic SRF (14%); conifer SRF (23%); broadleaf SRF
(poplar, aspen) (12%); SRC willow (27%); miscanthus (25%). A high-level analysis of
land availability has been undertaken, indicating that the Net Zero Strategy pathway
deployment profile is feasible. To calculate carbon stocks, a simple linear approach to yield
modelling has been adopted which could overestimate initial growth and thus abatement.
For all crops, appropriate biomass expansion coefficients were applied to account for
branches and/or roots, as appropriate. All biomass was converted to carbon, assuming
carbon comprises 50% of biomass. Emissions savings are modelled as the time-averaged
increase in biomass carbon stocks resulting from planting of the crop, assuming the land
use change is permanent.
In addition, the 2050 scenarios assume a maximum technical potential of 53 kha domestic
bioenergy crop planting rate by 2050. Bioresource import assumptions in 2050 do not
exceed current levels of imports.
Forestry: Emissions/removals are estimated using output from Forest Research’s CSORT
model, an off-line version of Carbine, the greenhouse gas accounting model used to
calculate the forestry contribution to the UK LULUCF GHG inventory.106, 107 Three indicative
woodland types are represented in the model: productive conifer, productive broadleaf,
and unmanaged. The modelled abatement is for England only and adjusted to a UK basis
to be broadly aligned to the CCC share of afforestation by country in the “Balanced Net
Zero pathway” scenario.108 Linear expansion of deployment is assumed between 2025
and 2035. Non-market benefits are calculated using various research, compatible with the
Enabling a Natural Capital Approach services data book.109
The 2050 scenarios vary the maximum afforestation/tree planting rate assumptions
between 30 kha (in the high electrification/innovation scenario) and 50 kha pa (in the high
resource scenario).

344

Technical Annex

Peatland: The peatland trajectory covers restoration as well as technical potential
modelling covering abatement from responsible management and the ending of peat
extraction. Emissions savings from peatland restoration are based on upland, lowland
cropland and lowland grassland emissions factors, which are applied to the peatland
restoration deployment profile, delivered via the Nature for Climate Fund and Blended
finance up to 2050.110 The technical potential modelling covering responsible management
measures (management activity that does not seek to re-establish peat habitats, but
which significantly reduces the impact of using peatland for its current purpose) assumes
abatement to be 1/3 of respective cropland/grassland restoration abatement. Biodiversity
and water quality benefits are monetized using central values, whilst upfront restoration
costs are estimated using 2017 Defra grant scheme data.111, 112 The peatland modelling
from Defra is England only, including an early stage assessment of how emissions factors
from wasted peat may be revised in future inventories. Abatement potential in DAs is
assumed to be in line with CCC analysis.
Peatland assumptions are the same across the three 2050 scenarios and there are two
separate evidence bases – one that covers England, and one that covers Scotland.
Both evidence bases consist of a set of restoration measures characterised by cost and
maximum technical potential to reduce emissions. Assumptions for England come from
Defra but for Scotland, data comes from the Scottish TIMES model and are uplifted to
account for Wales and Northern Ireland.
Resources and Waste: For municipal wastewater, water companies use the Carbon
Accounting Workbook developed by UK Water Industry Research to estimate operational
GHG emissions across the industry. The workbook has been in place since 2004 and
is updated annually to reflect the needs of the industry, including changes in carbon
accounting practices with updated emission factors to align with the latest UK and
international data. There are no internal models for private or industrial emissions and
there are still significant gaps in our understanding of the magnitude and main sources
of these. The Water UK Routemap to 2030 sets out industry plans to achieve net zero by
2030.113 This routemap has been used as the basis for Defra to develop net zero consistent
policies, for example, using assumptions from industry on cost and feasibility of policy
deployment.
For landfill emissions estimation, the Landfill Environmental and Financial (LEAF) model has
been used. This was developed by Resource and Waste Solutions, and more detail can
be found in their report.114 This is a high-level and strategic model of non-hazardous waste
flows in England. LEAF allows the different scenarios to be described numerically and their
effects on landfill emissions and costs of landfill to be calculated. The model considers the
impacts of changes on landfill gas, leachate and void space consumption. The model is
England only, but to provide an indication of Devolved Administration potential, emission
savings are scaled to a UK level using relative emissions shares between England and the
Devolved Administrations. It is assumed that there is a linear increase in diversion from
landfill after 2021.

345

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

F-Gases: The Net Zero Strategy pathway for F-gas Emissions was estimated primarily
using the UK-Level HFC Outlook Model developed by Gluckman Consulting. Non-HFC
F-gas emissions are estimated using the BEIS Energy and Emissions Projections. The level
of ambition for metered dose inhalers is derived from the ambition within the NHS report
‘Delivering a ‘Net Zero’ National Health Service’.115 Costs were developed using the CCC
report ‘Assessment of the potential to reduce UK F-gas emissions beyond the ambition of
the F-gas Regulation and Kigali Amendment’.116 Uplift of HFC GWPs to AR5 with Carbon
Cycle Feedback values was taken from BEIS Methodology.
Assumptions on maximum technical potential for resources, waste, and F-gases in the
2050 scenarios are aligned with the sectoral evidence base for the pathway analysis.

Greenhouse Gas Removals
The engineered removals include the following technologies: Power Bionenergy with
Carbon Capture and Storage (Power BECCS), Industry BECCS, Direct Air Carbon
Capture and Storage (DACCS), and BECCS applications based on advanced gasification
technologies (Hydrogen generation with waste, Hydrogen generation with biomass,
Biofuels, Biogas, and Biomethane generation with CCS). Other engineered removals
solutions, such as enhanced weathering, carbon-negative cements, ocean carbon
sequestration and biochar have not been included in the modelling at this stage given the
underlying uncertainty and need for further development.
The pathway was developed through a combination of bottom-up sectoral modelling,
as well as UKTM whole-system modelling. The pathway analysis (including build rates,
energy demand, and costs) relied on assumptions from published sources on BECCS
and DACCS, alongside a benchmarking study commissioned by BEIS.117, 118, 119, 120, 121 The
study presented evidence based on an original review of the published literature, feedback
received through the GGR Call for Evidence and additional stakeholder engagement.122
An investment lead-in time of four years is assumed for power BECCS, and five years for
hydrogen BECCS and DACCS. Costs for power BECCS and hydrogen BECCS represent
both the cost of generation (electricity/hydrogen) and of CO2 removal. Power and hydrogen
generation with BECCS are assumed to operate at baseload. DACCS is assumed to rely
on low carbon energy inputs.
UKTM modelling for the 2050 scenarios uses the same technology assumptions as the
pathway analysis where possible. In addition to the benchmarking study, assumptions on
maximum technical potential and technology performance have been sourced from the
sectoral models such as NZIP and from the Advanced Gasification Technology review.

346

Technical Annex

Supporting the transition across the economy

Green Jobs, Skills and Industries
Skills evidence presented in the Net Zero Strategy is largely drawn from the work carried
out by the Green Jobs Taskforce and found in the published Green Jobs Taskforce
report.123 The joint BEIS and DfE Ministerially led independent Taskforce included
representatives from across business, trade unions and the skills/education sector and
it was supported by a secretariat comprised of civil servants from BEIS and the DfE.
The secretariat facilitated the drawing together of its evidence review and supported the
Green Jobs Taskforce reviewing over 200 reports published by industry, academia, and
government to form a robust evidence base upon which to build recommendations. The
Annex published alongside the Green Jobs Taskforce brings together a wide range of
information about how certain sectors, occupations, skills requirements and qualification
levels (L)1 will change as the UK transitions to a net zero economy gathered by the
secretariat.

Green Investment
Research referenced in the Green Investment chapter is drawn from external sources.
This includes the Climate Change Committee’s The Road to Net Zero Finance, which was
a report prepared by the Advisory Group on Finance to critically assess the UK financial
systems ability to deliver net zero.124 This report provides an estimate for the total amount
of capital investment needed in technologies to achieve net zero and therefore does not
deliver a full picture of investment needs given the exclusion of operational costs.

Innovation for Net Zero
The published Energy Innovation Needs Assessments (EINAs) are the main source of
evidence base underlying the innovation chapter.125 It is a whole system analysis used in
understanding the sectors and innovations of highest potential benefit to the UK energy
system. The analysis is based on cost optimisation modelling carried with the Energy
System Modelling Environment (ESME), and extensive engagement with industry to
shape input assumptions and guide technical specifications. The EINAs are split into
twelve reports, each covering a group of similar technologies and exploring their potential
impacts and current barriers to their innovation and deployment. Overall, the EINAs aid
understanding of where innovation can help achieve the largest energy system cost
reductions and business opportunities when on a net zero trajectory.
GVA figures used in this publication have been updated internally by BEIS using the same
EINA methodology to reflect increased net zero ambition, as original EINA publications
were on the basis of the previous 80% greenhouse gas reduction target.

347

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Local Climate Action
Analysis of local based decarbonisation policies is based on the Local Net Zero Model.
The model takes assumptions from the ELENA programme, an EU fund which leverages
public money for local based decarbonisation projects.126 These assumptions include the
expected level of private funding leveraged, energy savings of projects and additionality.
The model estimates the public costs, private costs, carbon savings and energy savings of
expected projects resulting from the programme.

Empowering the Public and Businesses to Make Green Choices
Much of the research contributing towards this chapter was part of BEIS’ Net Zero
Societal Change Research Programme 2020-21. Components of the research programme
that have fed into this chapter include: ‘Climate change and net zero: public awareness
and perceptions’ (an online survey of circa 7,000 members of the UK public on public
perceptions of climate change and net zero); ‘Net zero public dialogue’ (online workshops
with the public exploring their understanding and perceptions of net zero); ‘Net Zero
Societal Change Analysis Project’ (analysis carried out by Energy Systems Catapult
exploring the potential impact of different societal changes in reaching net zero); and a
research note entitled ‘Net zero public engagement and participation’.127, 128, 129, 130
Within the chapter, the ‘Principles underpinning green public and business choices’
section is drawn from ‘Net zero: principles for successful behaviour change initiatives’, a
report BEIS commissioned from the Behavioural Insights Team.131 The chapter also uses
findings from BEIS’ Public Attitudes Tracker surveys regarding people’s concern about
climate change.132

Cross-cutting assumptions
Fuel prices: Fossil fuel price assumptions are based on the BEIS Fossil Fuel Prices
Assumptions 2020, with the exception of UKTIMES analysis which uses the BEIS Fossil
Fuel Prices Assumptions 2016.133
Carbon values: Carbon values apply a monetary value to emissions in policy appraisal
and are based on a target-consistent approach. The latest 2021 HMG carbon values are
consistent with the UK’s national and international climate commitments and represent an
increase on previous values.134 Where cost benefit analysis of the sixth carbon budget from
the Impact Assessment is quoted, the 2018 carbon values were used. These are consistent
with the previous 80% emissions reduction target. To compensate for subsequent
increased climate ambition, the high rather than central 2018 carbon values were used in
the cost benefit analysis.135

348

Technical Annex

Economic growth and demography: The baseline for economic growth used for all
analysis is consistent with the July 2020 OBR long term projections of economic growth.136
When calculating the GDP carbon intensity and GDP energy intensity deployment
assumptions, projections from the March 2021 Economic and fiscal outlook were used, for
both short and long-term GDP forecasts.137
Air quality: Where air quality impacts have been quantified, they have been monetised in
line with the national values of the most recent air quality damage costs.138
Discount rates: Discount rates are used in line with Green Book guidance.139 For appraisal
periods up to 2050 the discount rate is 3.5%. A 2% cumulative annual health uplift is
applied to air quality benefits prior to discounting, effectively reducing the discount
rate to 1.5%.
Estimating jobs: The estimate of jobs delivered since the Ten Point Plan announcement
is based on internal HMG analysis of employment impacts across a range of policies
and programmes within the 10 Points of the Plan. The method for estimating the number
of jobs supported by Net Zero Strategy policies and proposals in 2025 and 2030 is as
follows. This varies by sector and in some cases by the period of analysis.
Power: Analysis aggregates projected employment across Power Networks, Offshore
wind, Onshore wind, Solar, and Storage and demand side flexibility, all based on BEIS
analysis using the EINA methodology and the technology deployment levels implied by the
indicative delivery pathway (see Table 11). The 2030 figure also includes 10,000 jobs (peak
employment) from the construction of a large nuclear plant. These estimates are based
on the number employed directly in the power sector technologies, with the exception of
offshore wind, which also includes indirect (supply chain) jobs based on a multiplier of 1
direct job to 1 indirect job.
Fuel supply: The 2025 analysis is an estimate of potential employment by that year in a
UK industry in Sustainable Aviation Fuels (SAF) (based on DfT analysis). The 2030 figure
is an aggregation of anticipated employment by that year in SAF (based on DfT analysis),
along with an estimate of potential employment in a UK hydrogen economy as set out in
the Hydrogen Strategy.140 This is based on BEIS analysis of an updated model from the
Energy Innovation Needs Assessment.
Industry: Analysis relates to estimated employment in the UK in Carbon Capture Utilisation
and Storage (CCUS), calculated using the Energy Innovation Needs Assessments
approach and pro-rated for 2025 based on the anticipated trajectory for the level of
carbon captured through CCUS over the decade. These are high-level estimates and
actual outturn of employment will depend on several factors, although the jobs estimate is
considered broadly consistent with stated government policy for the development of the
technology. These estimates cover both power CCUS and CCUS for industrial purposes,
but are included in the Industry chapter as the estimates do not directly overlap with any
estimates included in the Power chapter.

349

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Heat and Buildings: Analysis aggregates anticipated employment impacts from the
decarbonisation of heating (calculated using an update of the Energy Innovation Needs
Assessments applied to the deployment levels set out in Table 11) and total public and
private spending on energy efficiency measures (based on BEIS analysis using a jobs/
capex multiplier). These estimates are based on broad assumptions of the policy mix
driving carbon savings from domestic buildings over the 2020s. As some of these policies
are still not confirmed, there is large uncertainty over the exact timing and job numbers
supported by them.
Transport: Both numbers are based on an aggregation of anticipated employment
impacts from the Automotive Transformation Fund and the Advanced Propulsion Centre,
along with anticipated levels of employment in active travel (cycling and walking), and rail
decarbonisation. The active travel and rail decarbonisation estimates are based on DfT
analysis of what policy ambitions for active travel and rail decarbonisation are likely to
imply for employment in their respective sectors in these years.
Natural Resources, Waste and F-gases: These numbers relate exclusively to direct
employment in the UK forestry sector and are based on Defra analysis. These estimates
exclude indirect jobs, such as those supported in tourism, the wider forestry supply chain
or local farming. Employment in forestry will be supported by policies such as the Nature
for Climate Fund. This number does not include potential employment in other areas
covered in the chapter such as peat restoration, sustainable agriculture or waste recycling.

Public and private investment estimates
Public investment figures in the strategy refer to sums of government spend committed
to a relevant Budgets and Spending Reviews, unless otherwise stated. Private investment
estimates are derived through analysis of how much private sector spend is likely to be
leveraged from this public spend. Further public and private investment will be delivered
as proposals are developed into firm policies. Analysis of the potential GVA generated
by decarbonisation has been conducted for a subset of sectors: power, renewables,
heat and buildings, industry, CCUS, hydrogen, smart systems and road transport. The
analysis follows the methodology developed by Vivid Economics for the Energy Innovation
Needs Assessment in 2019.141 Where possible, it uses whole energy systems modelling to
estimate domestic economic opportunities from achieving net zero in the UK in 2050 and,
while export opportunities rely on a global scenario limiting global warming to two degrees
Celsius above pre-industrial levels.

350

Technical Annex

Endnotes
1

UK Legislation (2008), ‘Climate Change Act 2008’, https://www.legislation.gov.uk/
ukpga/2008/27/contents

2

CCC (2019), ‘Net Zero – The UK’s contribution to stopping global warming’, https://www.
theccc.org.uk/publication/net-zero-the-uks-contribution-to-stopping-global-warming/

3

See in particular sections 13, 14 and 15 of the Act.

4

BEIS (2021), ‘2019 UK greenhouse gas emissions: final figures - statistical release’, https://
assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/
file/957887/2019_Final_greenhouse_gas_emissions_statistical_release.pdf

5

UNFCCC (2015), ‘Paris Agreement’, https://unfccc.int/sites/default/files/english_paris_
agreement.pdf

6

Excluding international aviation and shipping emissions.

7

BEIS (2021), ‘Annual statements of emissions’, https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/
annual-statements-of-emissions

8

BEIS (2021), UK Greenhouse Gas Inventory, 1990-2019, https://uk-air.defra.gov.uk/reports/
cat09/2105061125_ukghgi-90-19_Main_Issue_1.pdf

9

UK Legislation (2021), ‘The Carbon Accounting (Provision for 2019) Regulations 2021’,
https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2021/189/made?view=plain

10

BEIS (2021), ‘UK Greenhouse Gas Inventory’, 1990-2019, https://www.gov.uk/government/
statistics/final-uk-greenhouse-gas-emissions-national-statistics-1990-to-2019

11

IPCC (2013), ‘Supplement to the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas
Inventories: Wetlands’, https://www.ipcc.ch/site/assets/uploads/2018/03/Wetlands_
Supplement_Entire_Report.pdf

12

IPCC (2007), ‘Assessment Report 4’ WGI Chapter 2, table 2.14, https://www.ipcc.ch/
publications_and_data/ar4/wg1/en/ch2s2-10-2.html

13

IPCC (2013), ‘Assessment Report 5’ WGI Chapter 8, table 8.A.1 and 8.SM.16, https://www.
ipcc.ch/report/ar5/syr/

14

UNFCCC (2018), ‘Modalities, procedures and guidelines’, Annex II, Metrics
https://ledslac.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/09/e.-Decision-18-cma.1.pdf

15

IPCC (2021), ‘Assessment report 6’ WGI table 7.15, https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg1/

16

UK Legislation (2016), ‘Carbon Budget Order 2016 impact assessment’,
https://www.legislation.gov.uk/en/ukdsi/2016/9780111147825/impacts

17

The UK may also purchase international credits to contribute to its carbon budgets. We
assume that no such credits are purchased for the purposes of this analysis.

351

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
18

BEIS (2020), ‘Updated energy and emissions projections: 2019’, 2020, https://www.gov.uk/
government/publications/updated-energy-and-emissions-projections-2019

19

BEIS (2020), ‘Updated energy and emissions projections: 2019’, Annex A: Greenhouse gas
emissions by source, 2020, https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/
system/uploads/attachment_data/file/931200/Annex-A-greenhouse-gas-emissions-bysource__EEP2019_.ods

20

OBR (2020), ‘Fiscal sustainability report’, Chapter 2, July 2020, https://obr.uk/download/fiscalsustainability-report-july-2020/

21

Figure 1 shows EEP 2019 which for comparability has been adjusted for accounting changes,
namely including Wetlands brought in under the 2019 inventory (c.15 mt per year) and
converting the projections into AR5 with Feedback

22

EEP19 has been adjusted for accounting changes, namely including Wetlands brought in
under the 2019 inventory, including IAS emissions, and converting the projections into AR5
with feedback.

23

BEIS (2021), ‘2020 UK greenhouse gas emissions’, provisional figures, 2021, https://
assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/
file/972583/2020_Provisional_emissions_statistics_report.pdf

24

OBR (2020), ‘Fiscal sustainability report, July 2020’, https://obr.uk/download/fiscalsustainability-report-july-2020/

25

BEIS (2019), ‘Energy Innovation Needs Assessment’, https://www.gov.uk/government/
publications/energy-innovation-needs-assessments

26

BEIS (2019), ‘Energy Innovation Needs Assessment’, https://www.gov.uk/government/
publications/energy-innovation-needs-assessments

27

UCL, ‘UK TIMES’, https://www.ucl.ac.uk/energy-models/models/uk-times

28

The model takes account of the direct cost of purchasing, installing, running and maintaining
the abatement technologies. The cost of purchasing and installing includes assumed capital
costs and the cost of borrowing to pay for the capital. Running costs include the cost of energy
supplies, both domestic and any imports.

29

UK Legislation (2021), ‘Carbon Budget Order 2021 impact assessment’, https://www.
legislation.gov.uk/ukia/2021/18/pdfs/ukia_20210018_en.pdf

30

UK Legislation (2021), ‘Carbon Budget Order 2021 impact assessment’, https://www.
legislation.gov.uk/ukia/2021/18/pdfs/ukia_20210018_en.pdf

31

BEIS (2020), ‘Updated energy and emissions projections: 2019’ Annex D: Policy savings in the
projections (revised December 2020), https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/
uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/947604/Annex-D-policy-savings_revised_
Dec2020__EEP2019_.ods

32

This range is provisional. The Secretary of State will lay before Parliament a report setting out a
finalised indicative annual range as soon as is reasonably practicable.

352

Technical Annex
33

BEIS (2019), ‘Updated energy and emissions projections 2018’, Chapter 6 Uncertainty
in emissions projections, 2019, https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/
uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/794590/updated-energy-and-emissionsprojections-2018.pdf

34

IAS emissions increase the width of the range by 7.1mt on average over CB6, and the
additional LULUCF emissions increase the width by 11.8 mt. Both ranges are symmetrical.

35

Whilst sectors are characterised by different sources and magnitudes of uncertainty, we have
made the simplifying assumption that uncertainty in 2020 is +3.7%/-3.5% in each sector,
broadly in line with the economy wide average. The proportional up-/down-lift applied to
produce the rage increases by +0.35%/-0.17% in each subsequent year, again in line with the
economy wide average.

36

AR5 without feedback modelling undertaken for Agriculture, F-gases, Fuel Supply, LULUCF
and Waste. Heat & Buildings, International Aviation and Shipping, Industry, Power, Removals
and Transport all contain very small amounts of non-CO2 gases and pathways are assumed
invariant to GWP.

37

For the Natural Resources, Waste and F-gases sector, illustrative costs for Forestry, Peat and
Wastewater in the Devolved Nations have been included by assuming they are line with those
set out in CCC estimates. BEIS Analysis, CCC 6th Carbon Budget Report https://www.theccc.
org.uk/publication/sixth-carbon-budget/

38

UK Legislation (2021), ‘Carbon Budget Order 2021 impact assessment’, https://www.
legislation.gov.uk/ukia/2021/18/pdfs/ukia_20210018_en.pdf

39

This figure was based on outdated 2018 carbon values, with the ‘high’ series used to
compensated for anticipated increases in new carbon values: https://www.gov.uk/government/
publications/updated-short-term-traded-carbon-values-used-for-uk-policy-appraisal-2018

40

OBR (2021), ‘Fiscal risks report’, https://obr.uk/frr/fiscal-risks-report-july-2021/

41

HMT (2021), ‘Net Zero Review’

42

BEIS (2019), ‘Energy Innovation Needs Assessment’, https://www.gov.uk/government/
publications/energy-innovation-needs-assessments

43

European Commission Free allocation of allowances in the EU ETS, https://ec.europa.eu/clima/
policies/ets/allowances_en

44

BEIS, Free allocation of allowances in the UK ETS, https://www.gov.uk/government/
publications/participating-in-the-uk-ets/participating-in-the-uk-ets#free-allocation

45

HMT (2021), ‘Net Zero Review’

46

OBR (2021), ‘Fiscal risks report, July 2021’, Chapter 3, https://obr.uk/download/fiscal-risksreport-july-2021/

47

BEIS , Prime Minister’s office, 10 Downing Street, The Rt Hon Alok Sharma MP & The Rt Hon
Boris Johnson MP (2020), ‘The Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution’, https://www.
gov.uk/government/publications/the-ten-point-plan-for-a-green-industrial-revolution

353

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
48

Natural Capital Committee (2020), ‘The Green Book guidance: embedding natural capital into
public policy appraisal – November 2020 Update, 2020’, https://assets.publishing.service.
gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/937652/ncc-green-bookadvice.pdf

49

HMT (2013), ‘The Green Book: appraisal and evaluation of central government’, paragraph
6.50, https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/the-green-book-appraisal-and-evaluationin-central-governent

50

Defra (2021), ‘Enabling a Natural Capital Approach (ENCA)’, https://www.gov.uk/guidance/
enabling-a-natural-capital-approach-enca

51

See https://www.gov.uk/government/groups/natural-capital-committee The Natural Capital
Committee is an independent advisory body, set up in 2012. It provides advice to the
government on the state of England’s natural capital; our natural assets include forests, rivers,
land, minerals and ocean

52

Cambridge Conservation Initiative, ‘Natural Capital Coalition’ (2016), https://
naturalcapitalcoalition.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/07/CCI-Natural-Capital-Paper-July-2016low-res.pdf

53

ONS (2020), ‘UK natural capital accounts 2020’, https://www.ons.gov.uk/economy/
environmentalaccounts/datasets/uknaturalcapitalaccounts2020

54

International Resource Panel (2020), ‘Global Resources Outlook 2019: Natural Resources for
the Future We Want’, https://www.resourcepanel.org/reports/global-resources-outlook

55

For further background on the DDM, please see https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/
dynamic-dispatch-model-ddm

56

BEIS (2020), ‘Modelling 2050: electricity system analysis, 2020’, https://www.gov.uk/
government/publications/modelling-2050-electricity-system-analysis

57

CCC (2020), ‘The Sixth Carbon Budget: Electricity generation’, https://www.theccc.org.uk/wpcontent/uploads/2020/12/Sector-summary-Electricity-generation.pdf

58

BEIS (2020), Electricity Generation Costs, 2020, https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/
beis-electricity-generation-costs-2020

59

BEIS (2020), ‘Modelling 2050: electricity system analysis’, https://www.gov.uk/government/
publications/modelling-2050-electricity-system-analysis

60

BEIS (2021), ‘UK Hydrogen Strategy, 2021’, https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/ukhydrogen-strategy

61

BEIS (2021), ‘Hydrogen analytical annex, 2021’, https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/
government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/1011499/Hydrogen_Analytical_
Annex.pdf

62

BEIS (2021), Hydrogen analytical annex, 2021, https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/
government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/1011499/Hydrogen_Analytical_
Annex.pdf

354

Technical Annex
63

BEIS (2019), ‘Oil and gas: Environmental and Emissions Monitoring System database’, https://
www.gov.uk/guidance/oil-and-gas-eems-database

64

Element Energy (2020), ‘Deep-Decarbonisation Pathways for UK Industry, Element Energy,
2020’, https://www.theccc.org.uk/publication/deep-decarbonisation-pathways-for-uk-industryelement-energy/

65

CCC (2020), ‘Sixth Carbon Budget report’, https://www.theccc.org.uk/publication/sixthcarbon-budget/

66

BEIS (2021), ‘Industrial decarbonisation strategy’, https://www.gov.uk/government/
publications/industrial-decarbonisation-strategy

67

BEIS (2017), ‘National Household Model, 2017’, https://data.gov.uk/dataset/957eadbe-43b64d8d-b931-8594cb346ecd/national-household-model

68

BRE Group (2012), ‘Standard Assessment Procedure’, https://www.bregroup.com/sap/
standard-assessment-procedure-sap-2012/

69

MHCLG (2021), ‘English Housing Survey’: https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/englishhousing-survey

70

BEIS (2017), ‘Domestic cost assumptions – what does it cost to retrofit homes’: https://www.
gov.uk/government/publications/domestic-cost-assumptions-what-does-it-cost-to-retrofithomes

71

(BEIS 2019), ‘Determining the costs of insulating non-standard cavity walls and lofts’: https://
www.gov.uk/government/publications/determining-the-costs-of-insulating-non-standardcavity-walls-and-lofts

72

BEIS (2016),’Building Energy Efficiency Survey’, https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/
building-energy-efficiency-survey-bees

73

BEIS (2016), ‘Building Energy Efficiency Survey’, https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/
building-energy-efficiency-survey-bees

74

BEIS (2021), ‘Digest of UK Energy Statistics’, https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/
digest-of-uk-energy-statistics-dukes

75

BEIS (2020), ‘Energy and Emissions Projections’, https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/
energy-and-emissions-projections

76

BEIS (2020), ‘Energy Consumption in the UK’, https://www.gov.uk/government/statistics/
energy-consumption-in-the-uk

77

BEIS (2021),’Non-domestic National Energy Efficiency Data Framework’, https://www.gov.uk/
government/statistics/non-domestic-national-energy-efficiency-data-framework-nd-need-2020

78

BEIS (2020), ‘Cost of installing heating measures in domestic properties’, https://www.gov.uk/
government/publications/cost-of-installing-heating-measures-in-domestic-properties

79

BEIS (2017), ‘Detailed analysis of data from heat pumps installed via the Renewable Heat
Premium Payment Scheme (RHPP)’, https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/detailedanalysis-of-data-from-heat-pumps-installed-via-the-renewable-heat-premium-paymentscheme-rhpp
355

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
80

BEIS (2020), ‘Heat pump manufacturing supply chain research project’, https://www.gov.uk/
government/publications/heat-pump-manufacturing-supply-chain-research-project

81

BEIS (2017), ‘National Household Model’, https://data.gov.uk/dataset/957eadbe-43b6-4d8db931-8594cb346ecd/national-household-model

82

BEIS (2021), ‘National Energy Efficiency Data-Framework (NEED)’, https://www.gov.uk/
government/collections/national-energy-efficiency-data-need-framework

83

MHCLG (2019), ‘The Future Homes Standard consultation impact assessment’, https://www.
gov.uk/government/publications/the-future-homes-standard-consultation-impact-assessment

84

BEIS (2021), ‘National Energy Efficiency Data-Framework (NEED)’, https://www.gov.uk/
government/collections/national-energy-efficiency-data-need-framework

85

BEIS (2021), ‘Non-domestic National Energy Efficiency Data-Framework (ND-NEED)’, https://
www.gov.uk/government/collections/non-domestic-national-energy-efficiency-data-frameworknd-need

86

Element Energy (2021), ‘Development of trajectories for residential heat decarbonisation to
inform the Sixth Carbon Budget (Element Energy)’, https://www.theccc.org.uk/publication/
development-of-trajectories-for-residential-heat-decarbonisation-to-inform-the-sixth-carbonbudget-element-energy/

87

BEIS (2021), ‘Digest of UK Energy Statistics (DUKES)’, https://www.gov.uk/government/
collections/digest-of-uk-energy-statistics-dukes

88

BEIS (2021), ‘Opportunity areas for district heating networks in the UK: second National
Comprehensive Assessment, 2021’, https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/opportunityareas-for-district-heating-networks-in-the-uk-second-national-comprehensive-assessment

89

BEIS (2015), ‘Assessment of the Costs, Performance and Characteristics of UK Heat
Networks, 2015’, https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/
uploads/attachment_data/file/424254/heat_networks.pdf

90

BEIS (2019), ‘Heat Networks Investment Project (HNIP) pilot scheme, 2019’, https://www.gov.
uk/government/publications/heat-networks-investment-project-hnip

91

This model is based on historic RHI data.

92

Assumptions for this model drawn from Bioenergy Heat Pathways to 2050 Rapid Evidence
Assessment, Ecofys & E4Tech (for BEIS) 2018, unpublished.

93

These are consistent with those used to compile the 1990-2019 National Atmospheric
Emissions Inventory (NAEI).

94

BEIS (2021), ‘Green Book supplementary guidance: valuation of energy use and greenhouse
gas emissions for appraisal’, https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/valuation-of-energyuse-and-greenhouse-gas-emissions-for-appraisal

95

AHDB (2021), ‘Great Britain fertiliser prices’, https://ahdb.org.uk/GB-fertiliser-prices

96

BEIS (2020), ‘Future support for low carbon heat, 2021’, https://www.gov.uk/government/
consultations/future-support-for-low-carbon-heat

356

Technical Annex
97

DFT (2021), ‘Decarbonising transport: a better, greener Britain’, https://assets.publishing.
service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/1009448/
decarbonising-transport-a-better-greener-britain.pdf

98

DFT (2020), ‘Transport appraisal and modelling tools’, https://www.gov.uk/government/
collections/transport-appraisal-and-modelling-tools

99

DfT (2020), ‘Jet Zero consultation: Evidence and analysis’, https://assets.publishing.service.
gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/1002163/jet-zeroconsultation-evidence-and-analysis.pdf

100

DfT (2017), ‘UK Aviation Forecasts’, https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/
uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/878705/uk-aviation-forecasts-2017.pdf

101

UMAS, E4Tech, Frontier Economics, CE Delft (2019), ‘Reducing the Maritime Sector’s
Contribution to Climate Change and Air Pollution. Scenario Analysis: Take-up of Emissions
Reduction Options and their Impacts on Emissions and Costs. A Report for the Department for
Transport’
https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_
data/file/816018/scenario-analysis-take-up-of-emissions-reduction-options-impacts-onemissions-costs.pdf

102

BEIS (2021), ‘Final UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 1990 to 2019’, https://
www.gov.uk/government/statistics/final-uk-greenhouse-gas-emissions-national-statistics1990-to-2019

103

For example, the estimates of the greenhouse gas emissions from international shipping
represent estimates of the greenhouse gas emissions from fuel sold in the UK for use in
international shipping.

104

BEIS (2021), ‘Advanced Gasification Technologies Review and Benchmarking: summary
report’, https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/advanced-gasification-technologiesreview-and-benchmarking

105

Defra (2021), ‘Delivering Clean Growth Througfh Sustainable Intensification Project’. To be
published in 2021.

106

Morison et al. (2012), ‘Understanding the carbon and greenhouse gas balance of forests
in Britain’, https://www.forestresearch.gov.uk/research/understanding-the-carbon-andgreenhouse-gas-balance-of-forests-in-britain/.

107

Matthews, Broadmeadow (2009), ‘The potential of UK forestry to contribute to
government’s emissions reduction commitments’, https://www.cabdirect.org/cabdirect/
abstract/20103082977

108

CCC (2020),’Sixth carbon budget: Agriculture & land use, land-use change & forestry
(LULUCF)’, https://www.theccc.org.uk/wp-content/uploads/2020/12/Sector-summaryAgriculture-land-use-land-use-change-forestry.pdf

109

Defra (2021), ‘ENCA services databook’, https://www.gov.uk/guidance/enabling-a-naturalcapital-approach-enca#enca-services-databook

110

Evans et al. (2017), ‘Implementation of an Emissions Inventory for UK Peatlands’, https://uk-air.
defra.gov.uk/library/reports?report_id=980
357

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
111

Christie et al. (2011), ‘An economic assessment of the ecosystem service benefits derived from
the SSSI biodiversity conservation policy in England and Wales’, https://www.sciencedirect.
com/science/article/pii/S2212041612000095

112

Morris, Camino (2011), ‘Economic Assessment of Freshwater, Wetland and
Floodplain (FWF) Ecosystem Services’, http://uknea.unep-wcmc.org/LinkClick.
aspx?fileticket=lVLEq%2BxAI%2BQ%3D&tabid

113

Water UK (2020), ‘Net Zero 2030 Routemap’, https://www.water.org.uk/routemap2030/

114

Resources and Waste Solutions (2019), ‘Financial Costs of Current and
Future Landfill Operations’, http://sciencesearch.defra.gov.uk/Default.
aspx?Menu=Menu&Module=More&Location=None&Completed=0&ProjectID=20309

115

NHS England (2020), ‘Delivery a Net Zero National Health Service’, https://www.england.nhs.
uk/greenernhs/wp-content/uploads/sites/51/2020/10/delivering-a-net-zero-national-healthservice.pdf

116

Ricardo and Gluckman Consulting (2019), ‘Assessment of potential to reduce UK F-gas
emissions’, https://www.theccc.org.uk/publication/assessment-of-potential-to-reduce-uk-fgas-emissions-ricardo-and-gluckman-consulting/

117

Gas Turbine World (2015), GTW 2014-2015 Handbook, Volume 31, https://gasturbineworld.
com/shop/annual-handbook/2014-15-handbook-volume-31/

118

Ricardo (2019), ‘Analysing the potential of bioenergy with carbon capture in the UK to 2050’,
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/the-potential-of-bioenergy-with-carbon-capture

119

BEIS & Wood Plc (2018), ‘Assessing the Cost Reduction Potential and Competitiveness of
Novel (Next Generation) UK Carbon Capture Technology, Benchmarking State-of-the-art and
Next Generation Technologies, Revision 4A’,
https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_
data/file/864688/BEIS_Final_Benchmarks_Report_Rev_4A.pdf

120

NAS (2018), ‘Negative Emission Technologies and Reliable Sequestration: A Research
Agenda’, https://www.nap.edu/catalog/25259/negative-emissions-technologies-and-reliablesequestration-a-research-agenda

121

Element Energy and UK Centre for Ecology & Hydrology (2021), ‘Greenhouse Gas Removal
Methods and Their Potential UK Deployment’, https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/
greenhouse-gas-removal-methods-technology-assessment-report

122

BEIS (2020), ‘Greenhouse gas removals: call for evidence’, https://www.gov.uk/government/
consultations/greenhouse-gas-removals-call-for-evidence

123

Green Jobs Taskforce (2021), ‘Report to the Government, Industry and Skills Sectors’, https://
www.gov.uk/government/publications/green-jobs-taskforce-report

124

CCC (2020), ‘The Road to Net-Zero Finance’, https://www.theccc.org.uk/publication/the-roadto-net-zero-finance-sixth-carbon-budget-advisory-group/

125

BEIS (2019), ‘Energy Innovation Needs Assessment’, https://www.gov.uk/government/
publications/energy-innovation-needs-assessments

358

Technical Annex
126

European Investment Bank (2021), ‘ELENA – Completed Project Factsheets’, https://www.eib.
org/en/products/advising/elena/completed-projects/index.htm

127

BEIS (2021), ‘Climate change and net zero: public awareness and perceptions’, https://
www.gov.uk/government/publications/climate-change-and-net-zero-public-awareness-andperceptions

128

BEIS (2021), ‘Net zero public dialogue’, https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/net-zeropublic-dialogue

129

BEIS, Defra (2021), ‘Net Zero Societal Change Analysis Project’, https://www.gov.uk/
government/publications/net-zero-societal-change-analysis-project

130

BEIS (2021), ‘Net zero public engagement and participation’, https://www.gov.uk/government/
publications/net-zero-public-engagement-and-participation

131

Behavioural Insights Team (2021), ‘Net zero: principles for successful behaviour change
initiatives’, https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/net-zero-principles-for-successfulbehaviour-change-initiatives

132

BEIS (2021), ‘BEIS Public Attitudes Tracker’, https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/
public-attitudes-tracking-survey

133

BEIS (2020), ‘Fossil fuel price assumptions’, https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/fossilfuel-price-assumptions

134

BEIS (2021), ‘Green Book supplementary guidance: valuation of energy use and greenhouse
gas emissions for appraisal’, https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/valuation-of-energyuse-and-greenhouse-gas-emissions-for-appraisal

135

BEIS (2018), ‘Update to traded carbon values: 2018’, https://www.gov.uk/government/
collections/carbon-valuation--2#update-to-traded-carbon-values:-2018

136

OBR (2020), ‘Fiscal sustainability report – July 2020’, https://obr.uk/fsr/fiscal-sustainabilityreport-july-2020/

137

OBR (2021), ‘Economic and fiscal outlook report – March 2021’, https://obr.uk/efo/economicand-fiscal-outlook-march-2021/

138

Defra (2021), ‘Air quality appraisal: damage cost guidance’, https://www.gov.uk/government/
publications/assess-the-impact-of-air-quality

139

HMT (2013), ‘Green Book supplementary guidance: discounting’, https://www.gov.uk/
government/publications/green-book-supplementary-guidance-discounting

140

BEIS (2021), ‘UK Hydrogen Strategy’, https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/ukhydrogen-strategy

141

BEIS (2019), ‘Energy Innovation Needs Assessments’, https://www.gov.uk/government/
publications/energy-innovation-needs-assessments

359

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Climate
Science
Annex

361

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Climate Science Annex
Why we must act
Science is clear that the world is warming,
that this is occurring because of human
activity, and that left unchecked, continued
warming would be deeply harmful, not just to
the natural world, but also to human security
and wellbeing. Global average temperatures
have already risen by around 1.1°C1 and 2020
concluded the earth’s warmest 10-year period
on record.2 Without action to reduce the level
of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions emitted
globally down to net zero, climate change is
set to continue with increasing temperatures
across the world.3
We are already seeing the impacts of climate
change across all parts of the world, with
many types of extreme weather becoming
more frequent and more intense – causing
droughts, wildfires and flooding.4 The North
American heatwave in June 2021, which
broke temperature records by over 4°C and
reached 49.6°C in Canada, would have been
virtually impossible without climate change.5
The melting of glaciers and ice sheets is
accelerating, with sea levels currently rising at
3.7mm annually.6 In the UK we can see a trend
towards warmer and wetter winters, along
with hotter summers.7
These changes are damaging the land and
oceans that support human society and
the natural environment. As a result, many
species are being driven closer to extinction,8
food supplies are being disrupted,9 and
the health and livelihood of people across
the world are being affected.10 Climate
change disproportionally affects poor and
disadvantaged people, with rural, coastal,
and indigenous communities facing greater
risks from impacts such as rising sea levels,
drought, and food shortages.11

362

There is still uncertainty over the
responsiveness of global temperatures to
GHG emissions; the Intergovernmental Panel
on Climate Change (IPCC) estimate that a
doubling of pre-industrial CO2 levels would
result in warming in a range of 2.5°C – 4°C.12
The higher that temperatures rise, the greater
the risk of seeing dangerous low-likelihood,
high-impact outcomes. These could include
abrupt responses and tipping points such as
dieback of the Amazon Rainforest, melting of
the polar ice sheets, and the collapse of key
ocean currents controlling global weather,
which cannot be ruled out.13, 14 To avoid these
risks, strong and decisive action is needed
to reduce GHG emissions. Limiting further
warming decreases the likelihood of more
severe and potentially irreversible impacts on
people and ecosystems. Action would also
provide other co-benefits, such as limiting the
rate of ocean acidification and improving air
quality. Every additional fraction of a degree of
global warming counts – with every 0.5°C of
warming there are clearly discernible increases
in the intensity of and frequency of impacts.15
This is why we should aim to reduce global
emissions to net zero as quickly as is
practically possible.16

Climate Science Annex

Global temperature goals and emissions pathways
Rapid and deep cuts to emissions are
essential to avoid the most dangerous
impacts of climate change.17 Greenhouse
gas concentrations and global temperatures
will continue to rise until we reduce GHG
emissions to net zero.18 In 2015 the Paris
Agreement was signed, where 196 parties
committed to hold “the increase in the
global average temperature to well below
two degrees above pre-industrial levels and
to pursue efforts to limit the temperature
increase to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels,
recognising that this would significantly reduce
the risks and impacts of climate change”. The
Agreement recognised that, to achieve this
goal, global emissions of greenhouse gases
would need to peak as soon as possible,
reduce rapidly thereafter, and reach a net zero
level in the second half of this century.
As part of the Paris Agreement, countries also
committed to reduce or limit their greenhouse
gas emissions. These commitments are
contained in their Nationally Determined
Contributions (NDCs). A number of studies
have assessed how close these commitments
bring us to staying below two degrees.

It is worth noting that these assessments
use different assumptions regarding both the
extent to which countries will meet their NDCs
and, crucially, the actions that will be taken by
countries to reduce their emissions after 2030.
The latter will be a key determinant of whether
the world will meet the long-term global
temperature goal.
The Climate Action Tracker (CAT)19 estimates
that if there were a continuation of the
currently implemented global policies these
set us on course for a global average
temperature rise of 2.1°C to 3.9°C by the
end of the century. But if currently pledged
ambitions (i.e. those not yet implemented
into tangible policies) are implemented this
range decreases to 1.9°C to 3.0°C, with a
mid-range estimate of 2.4°C. These estimates
are also consistent with projections in the UN
Environment Programme’s 2020 Emissions
Gap Report.20 Whilst these assessments
show that current NDCs can have a significant
impact on projected temperature rises,
greater action is still needed if we are to
limit global temperature increases to well
below two degrees.

Adaptation in the UK
Responding to the complexity of climate
change demands a multifaceted approach.
Regardless of global success in reducing
GHG emissions, some future temperature
rises are already locked in by historical
emissions up to the present day. Even the
most optimistic, ambitious emission reduction
scenarios suggest approximately 0.5°C of
further warming by mid-century compared to
the present day.21 Furthermore, future global
emissions pathways are highly uncertain, so it
is essential that the UK’s adaptive capacity is
rapidly developed to prepare for, and bolster
our resilience to, the inevitable near-term and
potential future impacts of climate change.

To prepare for these eventualities, the UK is
already considering climate risks and what
actions will be required through its fiveyearly policy cycle of a Climate Change Risk
Assessment followed by a National Adaptation
Programme (NAP). The Government’s Third
Climate Change Risk Assessment will be
published in January 2022 and will outline
Government views on the key risks and
opportunities the UK will face from climate
change. The Climate Change Committee’s
2021 Independent Assessment of UK Climate

363

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener
Risk identified eight risk areas that will require
the most urgent attention in the next two
years.22 These are applicable even if global
warming is limited to 1.5°C.
•

Risks to the viability and diversity of
terrestrial and freshwater habitats and
species from multiple hazards

•

Risks to soil health from increased
flooding and drought

•

Risks to natural carbon stores and
sequestration from multiple hazards
leading to increased emissions

•

Risks to crops, livestock and commercial
trees from multiple hazards

•

Risks to supply of food, good and vital
services due to climate-related collapse of
supply chains and distribution networks

•

Risks to people and the economy from
climate-related failure of the power system

•

Risks to human health, wellbeing and
productivity from increased exposure to
heat in homes and other buildings

•

Multiple risks to the UK from climate
change impacts overseas

The NAP is a cross-department collaboration,
bringing together government’s policies
on managing climate risks in one place.
The second NAP sets out how we will
address climate risks for the period 2018 to
2023, including risks to terrestrial, coastal,
marine, and freshwater ecosystems, soils
and biodiversity; and flooding and coastal
change risks to communities, businesses
and infrastructure.

Future developments in climate science
In recent years the debate and focus of
scientific research has shifted from whether
climate change is happening and/or is being
caused by human activity, to the range of
the expected impacts and the level of action
required to address climate change through
a combination of adaptation and mitigation.
We need to better understand the nature,
magnitude and rate of climate change.
Preparing for unavoidable changes to the
climate will require more local analysis and
more information on how global warming
relates to local-scale changes in weather
and climate extremes. Further research is
also needed around stronger mitigation
actions to inform climate policy that can get
us to net zero.
Our knowledge has increased significantly but
many key research priorities remain, including
deepening our understanding around the
four questions Government posed to the Met
Office this year.23

364

•

What current weather and climate
risks and impacts are expected
globally and in the UK?

•

What are the future risks and impacts from
weather and climate that we need to avoid
or need to adapt to?

•

What are the carbon budget and
mitigation scenarios that will avoid the
most dangerous impacts of global
climate change?

•

What impacts and opportunities from
mitigation and adaptation actions are
needed to proceed towards a resilient and
net zero future?

The UK has also recently committed
£1.2 billion of funding to develop a new
state-of-the-art supercomputer for the Met
Office. This will help ensure government,
industry and communities are better prepared
for the impacts from a changing climate
through increased amounts of data. Examples
include the provision of very detailed localised
climate information to improve city planning
and public transport infrastructure.

Climate Science Annex
Climate science continues to rapidly improve
and develop. This year saw the publication of
the Working Group I (WGI) contribution to the
IPCC’s Sixth Assessment Report (AR6). The
report addresses the most up-to-date physical
understanding of the climate system and
climate change, bringing together the latest
advances in climate science. WGII and WGIII
contributions to AR6 will be published in 2022
and respectively cover the impacts of climate
change on people and nature, and the options
for reducing GHG emissions and removing
GHG from the atmosphere.
The main conclusions of WGI are a
reinforcement of the consensus on climate
science: that there is absolutely no doubt that
human activities have warmed the planet and
are causing widespread and rapid changes
to the climate. Without immediate and drastic
action, the impacts will be more severe and
frequent. It shows that we are already feeling
the effects of climate change and know that
some changes to the planet are already
irreversible on timescales of centuries to
millennia. However, with immediate, concerted
action to reduce emissions now, the worst
impacts can still be averted. Technologies
to remove CO2 directly from the atmosphere
or ocean can also help, but to adhere to the
temperature goal of the Paris Agreement
ambitious action on emission reductions is still
required, and is needed today.

365

Net Zero Strategy: Build Back Greener

Endnotes
1

IPCC (2021), ‘Working Group I Contribution to the IPCC 6th Assessment Report, Climate
Change 2021: The Physical Science Basis’, Paragraph A.1.2, Summary for Policymakers,
https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg1/#SPM

2

Met Office (2021), ‘2020 ends earth’s warmest 10 years on record’, https://www.metoffice.gov.
uk/about-us/press-office/news/weather-and-climate/2021/2020-ends-earths-warmest-10years-on-record

3

IPCC (2021), ‘Working Group I Contribution to the IPCC 6th Assessment Report, Climate
Change 2021: The Physical Science Basis’, Paragraph D.1.1, Summary for Policymakers,
https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg1/#SPM

4

PCC (2021), ‘Working Group I Contribution to the IPCC 6th Assessment Report, Climate
Change 2021: The Physical Science Basis’, Paragraph A.3.2 and A.3.5, Summary for
Policymakers, https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg1/#SPM

5

Philip, S. Y. et al (2021), ‘Rapid attribution analysis of the extraordinary heatwave on
the Pacific Coast of the US and Canada’, https://www.ecodebate.com.br/wp-content/
uploads/2021/07/20210707-rapid-attribution-analysis-of-the-extraordinary-heatwave-on-thepacific-coast-of-the-us-and-canada-june-2021.pdf

6

IPCC (2021), ‘Working Group I Contribution to the IPCC 6th Assessment Report, Climate
Change 2021: The Physical Science Basis’, Paragraph A.4.3 and A.1.7, Summary for
Policymakers, https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg1/#SPM

7

Kendon, M. et al (2021), ‘State of the UK Climate 2020’, https://rmets.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/
doi/10.1002/joc.7285

8

PCC (2019), Special Report on Climate Change and Land, Section 2.2.4, Chapter 2, Food
Security, Land-Climate interactions, https://www.ipcc.ch/srccl/

9

IPCC (2019), Special Report on Climate Change and Land, Chapter 5 Executive Summary,
https://www.ipcc.ch/srccl/

10

IPCC (2019), Special Report on Climate Change and Land, Chapter 5 Executive Summary,
https://www.ipcc.ch/srccl/

11

IPCC (2018), IPCC Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5°C, Chapter 3 Section 3.5.2.3 and
Paragraph B5.1 Summary for Policymakers, https://www.ipcc.ch/sr15/

12

IPCC (2021), ‘Working Group I Contribution to the IPCC 6th Assessment Report, Climate
Change 2021: The Physical Science Basis’, Paragraph A.4.4 Summary for Policymakers,
https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg1/#SPM

13

IPCC (2021), ‘Working Group I Contribution to the IPCC 6th Assessment Report, Climate
Change 2021: The Physical Science Basis’, Paragraph C.3.2, Summary for Policymakers,
https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg1/#SPM

366

Climate Science Annex
14

IPCC (2021), ‘Working Group I Contribution to the IPCC 6th Assessment Report, Climate
Change 2021: The Physical Science Basis’, Box TS.9, Technical Summary, https://www.ipcc.
ch/report/ar6/wg1/#TS

15

IPCC (2021), ‘Working Group I Contribution to the IPCC 6th Assessment Report, Climate
Change 2021: The Physical Science Basis’, Paragraph B.2.2, Summary for Policymakers,
https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg1/#SPM

16

IPCC (2021), ‘Working Group I Contribution to the IPCC 6th Assessment Report, Climate
Change 2021: The Physical Science Basis’, Paragraph D.1, Summary for Policymakers,
https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg1/#SPM

17

Lowe, J. et al (2019), ‘Links between emissions pathways and time lags in Earth’s climate
system’, https://www.theccc.org.uk/wp-content/uploads/2019/07/Briefing-note-on-time-lagsin-the-climate-system-Met-Office.pdf

18

PCC (2021), ‘Working Group I Contribution to the IPCC 6th Assessment Report, Climate
Change 2021: The Physical Science Basis’, Paragraph B.1 and D.1 Summary for
Policymakers, https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg1/#SPM

19

Climate Action Tracker (2021), ‘Warming Projections Global Update May 2021’, https://
climateactiontracker.org/documents/853/CAT_2021-05-04_Briefing_Global-Update_ClimateSummit-Momentum.pdf

20

UNEP (2020), ‘Emissions Gap Report 2020’, https://www.unep.org/emissions-gapreport-2020

21

IPCC (2021), ‘Working Group I Contribution to the IPCC 6th Assessment Report, Climate
Change 2021: The Physical Science Basis’, Box TS.1 and Table 1, Technical Summary, https://
www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg1/#TS

22

CCC (2021), ‘Independent Assessment of UK Climate Risk’, Executive Summary, https://www.
theccc.org.uk/publication/independent-assessment-of-uk-climate-risk/

23

Met Office Hadley Centre Climate Programme, https://www.metoffice.gov.uk/weather/climate/
met-office-hadley-centre/climate-programme/index

367

E02678428
978-1-5286-2938-6