THE NEXT GENERATION
OF CLIMATE INNOVATION
Using a climate innovation framework to flip the script from challenge to opportunity

CLIMATE SOLUTION
INNOVATION

$

REVENUE
OPPORTUNITIES

REDUCTION OF
OWN EMISSIONS

NEED FOR
SUSTAINABILITY
IN SOCIETY

CLIMATE RISK
INNOVATION

COST/RISK
REDUCTION
$

CONTENTS:

THE NEXT GENERATION
OF CLIMATE INNOVATION

Using a climate innovation framework to flip the script from challenge to opportunity.

PART 3 –
INNOVATION ACROSS
ALL ENABLERS
Apply innovation to all system enablers
responsible for delivering solutions:
investment models, ecosystems, policy
frameworks, entrepreneurship

PART 1 –
THE CASE FOR CLIMATE
INNOVATION
With innovation, a 1.5°C low
energy demand (LED) scenario
not only becomes achievable, but
provides an abundance of value
creation opportunities

26

02

PART 4 –
CONCLUSIONS AND ACTIONS
Climate innovation is an opportunity to
build a long-term advantage

PART 2 –
THE CLIMATE SOLUTION
INNOVATION CANVAS
A new wave of climate-driven
innovation – from technologies to
business models – to win in the fourth
industrial revolution and avoid resource
intensive system lock-in

REFERENCES AND SOURCES

40
48

Project coordinators: Dennis Pamlin and Marco Duso

12

Written by: Kanika Chandaria, Jakob Dahlqvist, Marco Duso, Michel Frédeau, Jay Hennessy, Jesper Nielsen,
Dennis Pamlin, Cornelius Pieper, Raju Sarma and Danielle Ullner

THE CASE FOR
CLIMATE INNOVATION
With innovation, a 1.5°C low energy demand (LED)
scenario not only becomes achievable, but provides an
abundance of value creation opportunities

Innovations needed for a 1.5ºC
global sustainability pathway:
At COP26 in Glasgow the UNFCCC launched the
UN Climate Change Global Innovation Hub (UGIH).1
For the first time in 26 years a door was opened at
the center of international climate negotiations for
solution providers that can demonstrate how they
can deliver sustainable 1.5°C compatible solutions for
a future with 10-11 billion people. At the core of The
Global Innovation Hub is an expanded innovation
agenda. This expanded innovation agenda represents
a shift from a static problem approach, where the
focus is on reducing problems in existing systems, to
a dynamic solution approach where the focus is on
solution providers that can deliver on human needs
in a sustainable way.

THE NEXT GENERATION OF CLIMATE INNOVATION

THE CASE FOR CLIMATE INNOVATION

3

Climate solution innovation
is the way to get to net-zero
and an opportunity to create
business value

A fast-rising number of governments, companies
and other key players are committing themselves
to net-zero goals for carbon emissions to meet
this objective. US, India, China, South Korea and
Japan have joined Sweden, UK, France, Denmark,
New Zealand and Hungary in making a public
pledge to achieve net-zero by 2050 (albeit with
India committing to do this by 2070 and China by
2060). Still the main focus of most strategies and
initiatives is a static problem approach where the
best that countries can do is reach zero.
Accelerate climate
action and enable
1.5ºC target

Creating business
advantage and value
for shareholders

The US, under the Biden administration, is making
commitments and setting targets to move in a
net-zero direction: the first ambition is to reach
a ~50% reduction in GHG emission in 2030
compared to levels from 2005. Further ambition

Requires a shift
in mind set, to
view climate as
an opportunity

Figure 1: An expanded innovation agenda

Dynamic Solution Approach

Requires and approach
to innovation that
recognises and acts on
climate opportunity

Provider of
Solutions

Source: BCG analysis

Six years before COP26, world leaders met in
Paris and agreed to limit a global temperature
rise by the end of the century to well below 2°C
and to pursue efforts to limit the temperature
increase even further to 1.5°C. In 2018, the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)
warned that global warming must not exceed 1.5°C
above pre-industrial temperatures to avoid the
catastrophic impacts of climate change. To achieve
this, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions must halve
by 2030 and drop to net-zero by 2050. Further
progress was made during COP26, with 90% of

4

the world now committed to net-zero versus only
30% in 2019.2 However, a large abatement gap still
persists, and even more important commitments
must now translate into action in a sustainable way.
The world needs emission reduction at a speed
and scale that will require unprecedented levels
of innovation. One institutional response to the
expanded innovation agenda was the launch of
Mission Innovation at the meeting in Paris. Mission
Innovation was established based on the realisation
that the world needs clean energy innovations.3

THE NEXT GENERATION OF CLIMATE INNOVATION

Source of
Emissions

Approach to companies/cities/countries

Value
Creation

Climate
innovation
connects 1.5ºC
compatibility
to advantage
and value

Climate
Impact

is to reach net-zero emissions economy-wide by
no later than 2050. And it is not just governments.
Companies too are challenging themselves to make
this transition. Over 5,200 companies worldwide
have joined the Race to Zero initiative by the UN
and are thus working to reduce their emission at
the pace and scale necessary.4 Again, the main
focus of most strategies and initiatives is based
on a static problem approach where the focus is
on reducing scope 1-3 emissions and the best a
company can reach is zero.

Opportunities
of tomorrow:
An expanded
innovation
agenda

Static Problem Approach
1.5°C Strategy
Current Focus:
Only a small part
of the innovation
agenda

Existing Sectors

Human Needs

THE CASE FOR CLIMATE INNOVATION

5

Figure 2: Climate innovation crossroads
REVENUE
OPPORTUNITIES

Each new commitment from existing stakeholders
to reduce their own emissions, rather than focus on
solutions to human needs, can be a step in the right
direction. However, aggregated they can establish a
static problem approach with several challenges.

Dynamic solution
approach focused on
delivering societal needs
sustainably with new
value chains and models

INCENTIVE

1.

$

CLIMATE SOLUTION
INNOVATION

Strategies that only remove carbon from existing systems are not enough
to achieve a sustainable 1.5°C compatible pathway as such a system will
be too resource intensive, too unequal and continue to undermine poverty
reduction, biodiversity, and other SDGs.

REDUCTION OF
OWN EMISSIONS

NEED FOR
SUSTAINABILITY
IN SOCIETY

APPROACH

2. Many of the static problem commitments are based on business-as-usual
strategies where unproven technologies, such as carbon capture, utilisation,
and storage (CCUS), reach a scale and price that might not materialize, and
will allow them to continue without any significant changes. In order to
support sustainable innovations, strategies that deliver net-zero without
technical carbon capture should be the reference and the carbon capture
strategies should be approached as a back-up.
3. Strategies based on a static problem approach tend to deploy tools that
support improved versions of existing products, such as most environmental
labels, environmental taxes and investment decisions based on existing
sectors. While such strategies can deliver improvements in existing systems
they tend to undermine opportunities for a new generation of solutions.
4. The main challenge with the static problem approach is, however, a
combination of all the above and can be called “the fossil free typewriter
dilemma”, where existing unsustainable production and business models are
assumed as the default option, and smart new solutions that support global
sustainability are ignored or marginalised.

In IPCC’s 1.5°C special report a pathway was
explored for the first time where the focus shifted
from only improving existing systems, to a broader
innovation agenda, where more resource efficient
ways of providing for human needs were in focus.5
This pathway, the P1 or Low Energy Demand
pathway, demonstrated that a 1.5°C compatible
pathway is not only possible without using carbon
capture technology, but is also much better at
delivering on other global sustainability goals,

6

as well as opening up for innovations based on
business model innovations such as sharing, circular
and modular design.6
Annual GHG emissions are now 50 gigatons above
net-zero levels (when the amount of greenhouse
gases produced equals the amount removed from
the atmosphere) and even if we disregard these
caveats, scaling existing technologies would still
leave about a third of annual global GHG emissions

THE NEXT GENERATION OF CLIMATE INNOVATION

CLIMATE RISK
INNOVATION
Traditional risk approach
focused on retaining current
value chains & models while
reducing GHG emissions

$

COST/RISK
REDUCTION

to address. The reality is that too few governments
and companies are acting decisively to put in place
the robust policies and roadmaps required to
meaningfully and innovatively deliver on sustainable
net-zero ambitions. Beyond commitments, we
also need new technologies, business models and
policy initiatives if we are to achieve net-zero by
2050, and we need them faster than currently
envisioned. Exploring how the innovation space can
be expanded to encourage deeper, faster, and more
sustainable solutions is therefore vital.
Climate change, and the necessary emission
reductions, is often presented as an intractable
problem and risk, but it can, and must, be solved.
In the solution lies big opportunity for businesses,
investors and governments. While we know the
current approach will not fill the gap, there is an
achievable pathway to get there and it starts with
navigating the climate innovation crossroads (see
Figure 2).
As part of this mindset shift, we need to reframe
the way we approach both the problem and
solution. If we assume a static risk approach to
the changes required, the question is about how
those emitting greenhouse gases (GHG) today can

continue to do what they do without greenhouse
gas (GHG) emissions. With society going through
a fourth industrial revolution, the world needs to
move beyond only the need for reduced emissions,
as such an approach will undermine more impactful
innovation and other sustainability goals. Instead,
we must assume a dynamic solution approach
that is about how we can deliver the needs that
are required for a world of 10-11 billion people
in a sustainable way. Doing this will require more
active assessment of areas previously deemed
“unattractive” due to early Technology Readiness
Levels (TRLs), or innovations outside existing
Overton windows, where efforts and investment of
resources didn’t match high decarbonization and
economic potential.

“Traditional corporate social responsibility
and philanthropy are inadequate for our
times. Leaders must rethink what a business
is and how it drives change in the world.”
– Paul Polman and Andrew Winston, HBR,
The Net Positive Manifesto
September-October 2021
THE CASE FOR CLIMATE INNOVATION

7

While we ultimately will require multiple
approaches to achieve what is needed to deliver
there are great untapped opportunities in the top
right quadrant of what we call “climate solution
innovation”.

1. Business

2. Enablers

3. Cities

Three areas with examples to demonstrate
how the focus on needs and solutions is rapidly
increasing are:

1.

Solutions

Business
Incubators and accelerators: Leading incubators and accelerators are
assessing and increasing the avoided emissions potential and 1.5 °C
compatibility.7, 8
Leading large companies: A growing number of companies have begun
assessing avoided emissions and 1.5°C compatibility, and leading CEOs are
exploring ways to deliver what is needed.9, 10, 11
Business groups: WEF will explore how major emitters can add a solution
approach by asking those responsible for “30% of the problem” to explore
what percentage of the solutions they can provide.

2. Enablers
The financial sector: The Net-Zero Alliance is exploring how to have
a measurable positive impact and have a dedicated work stream for
“Financing Transition Targets”.12
Media companies and advertisers: Different initiatives and studies explore
how media and advertising companies can have a positive impact.13

3. Cities
UN-Habitat and Global Covenant of Mayors will focus on matchmaking
and methodology development to assess contributions from solution
providers and enablers that can be scaled.14

There’s value in emissions reduction:
Climate innovation is a huge opportunity to
create value for all stakeholders involved. With a
dynamic solution perspective, where companies
are approached as solution providers that focus
on fundamental societal needs, companies can
create business advantage and value by accelerating
climate action to future-proof their business and
help meet the 1.5°C target envisioned in the Paris
Accord. Investors can profit from new climate
change initiatives that promise longer-term success.
Governments can also boost economic growth with
support for what we call climate solution innovation.
Here’s how we can have our climate cake and
eat it too.
Seismic shifts are beginning to occur in government
policies and public-and-private sector initiatives.
Consider a few examples. In September 2020,
China’s President committed his country to
achieving carbon neutrality by 2060. This is an
enormous challenge for the world’s biggest annual

8

THE NEXT GENERATION OF CLIMATE INNOVATION

carbon emitter, but a recent BCG analysis found
that China has economically attractive and socially
viable pathways to achieve its de-carbonization
goals.15 The total cost will be substantial – 90
trillion to 100 trillion RMB (or about $13.5 trillion
to $15 trillion) through 2050, but the investments
THE CASE FOR CLIMATE INNOVATION

9

Figure 3: Climate is a major value creation opportunity – First generation of ‘green champions’ is performing at big-tech level
3-year average TSR (Oct 2017-2020), simple average of companies within each category

Unknown %

80%

69%

29%

30%

Big Tech

1st Generation
Green Champions

6%
S&P 500

-6%

2nd Generation
Green Champions

spectacular, it is also key to acknowledge that the
narrative must ultimately shift to not only focus
on maximizing return on investment but also on
success in fulfilling the needs of society – for
example, mobility, nutrition, energy, etc.
These “green champions” and other forwardlooking companies are demonstrating that a new
generation of climate innovation has a strong
focus on value creation. They are showing how
to create new revenue streams by entering new
markets or developing offerings that cater to
high priority economic and social needs. They are
winning customer preference and strengthening
their brands through positive environmental and
societal contribution. Early movers are using scale
and market position to create network effects and
lower costs. Innovators are building more resilient
business models by reinventing in the most critical
parts of the value chain, reducing exposure to
increasing costs and regulatory constraints. They

are enhancing stakeholder value from all angles
including their employees, customers and investors
and thereby delivering greater returns.
Lots of progress has been made on commitments
and initial actions but the challenge ahead will
be to achieve these commitments in the required
time frames for climate action. Going forward, we
fundamentally need, and should unilaterally desire,
a huge wave of climate-driven innovation in its
widest possible meaning, from business models to
technology and breakthrough science. We will need
to continue expanding the window of opportunity
to support the innovators in transforming the art of
possible, and to also push the laggards in becoming
part of the solution (see Figure 4). Moreover,
we must remember that innovation should
complement, and come in addition to, changes in
policy frameworks, investment models, leadership,
and other areas of climate action, not replace it.

Cement & Steel

-18%

Figure 4: Innovation heatmap

Oil & Gas Majors

Note: As of 25.11.2020, based on data ending in October. TSRs use company reporting currency. Beyond Meat is a 1-year TSR. The Following companies were
considered: 1. Oil and Gas Majors - BP, Shell, Eni, Exxon, Chevron, Total and Equinor 2. Cement & Steel consists of 732 companies with Steel or Concrete as
primary classifications. 3. S&P 500. 4. Big Tech - Apple, Google, Facebook, Amazon, Salesforce, Microsoft. 5. 1St Generation Green Champions - Enel, Neste,
Iberdrola, Orsted, NextEra. 6. 2nd Generation Green Champions - Tesla, Beyond Meat (1 Year TSR only) Source: S&P Capital IQ; BCG Value Science (R) Centre

will have a material benefit for GDP, contributing
2% to 3% over the first half of the century. Green
technology investments alone will account for
more than 2% of China’s GDP by 2050. Far from
hindering economic growth, decarbonization could
in fact stimulate the economy.
As part of its Green Growth Strategy, South Korea
provided early support for battery storage projects.
Investment in R&D enabled breakthroughs in
stable multicycle charging and support for early
integrated battery deployment. Lithium-ion battery
costs declined nearly 90% from 2010 to 2019 and
South Korean battery producers captured a leading
market share by 2013.

10

In terms of shareholder returns, the first generation
of “green champion” companies is winning in the
climate transition and performing at levels similar
to those of big tech firms such as Facebook,
Amazon, Apple, Netflix, and Google. Between
October 2017 and October 2020, companies such
as Enel, Neste, Iberdrola, Orsted, and NextEra
Energy generated annual total shareholder returns
on the order of 30%. Beyond this first generation,
the returns for an emerging second-generation
of “green champions”, such as Tesla and Beyond
Meat, were 70% to 80%. (See Figure 3). The current
value of Tesla alone outstrips the combined market
cap of the nine largest car companies globally.
While the results of these “green champions” are

THE NEXT GENERATION OF CLIMATE INNOVATION

LAGGARDS
Part of the problem
WINDOW OF
OPPORTUNITY

INNOVATORS
Innovations currently
ignored, often due to a
strong focus on climate
risk innovation and
companies only as
sources of emissions

Expanding the window
of opportunity must
happen in both directions
simultaneously

Heavy emitters should
be seen as part of
the solution not
the problem

We need to push the
boundaries of what we
think is possible

THE CASE FOR CLIMATE INNOVATION

11

THE
CLIMATE SOLUTION
INNOVATION CANVAS
A new wave of climate-driven innovation – from technologies to
business models –to win in the fourth industrial revolution and
avoid resource intensive system lock-in

“While breakthroughs in technology
are critical to generate new
opportunities, not all companies
need to play in the breakthrough
tech fields. Equally important, or
even more important, is business
model innovation”

The climate solution innovation canvas:
Companies can choose from various approaches to
climate innovation, but they are well advised not to
limit their ambitions to one or two options. They can
look within to improve their existing business models
and markets or create brand new ones. Equally, they
can participate in scaling up existing technological
solutions or supporting in the development of more
disruptive ones, including partnering with academia,
entrepreneurs, or others in the innovation ecosystem
to help build, validate and scale breakthrough
technology. These choices lead to four quadrants of
potential climate action, all focused around re-framing
climate activity as an opportunity for individual and
societal success, rather than as a hindrance to growth
(see Figure 5).

THE NEXT GENERATION OF CLIMATE INNOVATION

THE CLIMATE SOLUTION INNOVATION CANVAS

13

Companies can use a wide range of opportunities
to fulfil the objectives in each of these quadrants,
starting from improving their own processes and
products (e.g. reducing carbon emissions associated
with their own activities or phasing out carbonintensive products), to influencing interdependent
parties to broaden their sphere of impact (e.g.
exerting control over the product life cycle, sending
demand signals to suppliers, or taking the lead
to inspire broader industry action), all the way
through to providing the enabling tools to support
others in achieving their net-zero ambitions (e.g. by
providing high-quality, low-carbon alternatives or
by creating tools that improve visibility and support
better decision making). In all instances, though,
companies need to move away from looking

be beneficial for the climate, they are more what
we consider stable stakes in climate action, rather
than “climate innovation” for the purpose of
this report. It’s also important to recognize that
companies don’t necessarily need to develop new,
breakthrough technology to innovate. Breakthrough
developments in climate tech, such as storage,
materials, distribution, will continue to be integral
in creating new value creation and climate impact
opportunities, but not all companies will need to
play in breakthrough tech fields. There still remains
huge potential in deploying and scaling-up existing
low energy demand technologies to accelerate
climate action, and even greater potential linked to
business model innovation where delivery on needs
in society and revenues are disconnected from
increased numbers of products.

at themselves as sources of emissions and see
themselves as solution providers for fundamental
societal needs.
Today, many companies are taking climate action
and have already made progress in improving
climate-related metrics and reducing carbon
emissions. However, most of the time, this action is
taken by adopting proven, mainstream approaches
such as switching to renewable energy supply in
current business operations, rather than developing
new ways to have climate impact. In many of
these instances, applying existing and proven
technology is assumed to be the only relevant part
of the innovation equation for a given company
to consider. While these approaches can indeed

Figure 5: Climate solution innovation canvas:

New solutions that fulfil the
customer need in a new way,
avoiding emission

Deep-tech approach through
breakthrough technologies

e.g. Didi Chuxing, Indigo,
Octopus Energy

e.g. Memphis Meats, Joyn Bio,
Climeworks

Reboot

Toward better, accelerated
deployment of existing low
carbon solutions

Improve the product offering
with new low carbon technology

Technology

THE NEXT GENERATION OF CLIMATE INNOVATION

e.g. Sila Nanotechnologies,
Equinor floating OSW,
Form Energy

sf
or

m

ati
o

n

Re-Engineer

Br
e
gr akow o
th ut

Invent

e.g. Neste, Yara, Tata

Scale up

14

Re-Imagine

Tr
an

Improve existing
business models
or market

Business
Model

Create new
business model
or market

There are multiple approaches to value creation

There will also be opportunity for companies to
contribute to future breakthrough technologies.
Time and again with climate innovation, we have
seen rapid, exponential technology development in
areas such as solar, onshore wind and lithium-ion
battery storage and, correspondingly, plummeting
prices both in terms of production and storage.
The costs of solar PV production and storage,
for example, have fallen by around 90% in the
last decade. This pattern has been seen in other
high-tech industries such as drones and DNA
sequencing. For the latter total U.S funding
for R&D until first success in 2000 amounts to
approximately $2.7 billion sequentially, after
this the cost per unit has fallen from $20-25
million/unit in 2006 to around $1000/unit today.
Companies therefore will have a role to play in
supporting innovation and making technology more
accessible by bringing down price.

developments in new technology.16 Companies can
look to transform how they deliver value by finding
new ways to fulfil their customers’ existing needs
whilst having a lower carbon impact. For example,
Orsted and other green energy giants have
phased out oil, gas and coal to transition to 100%
renewable energy, meeting their customers same
energy needs through a lower carbon alternative.17
They did not invent these technologies, but merely
spotted the opportunity to deploy and scale.
Companies can also fundamentally change
their business model to focus on needs-based
innovation, designing new markets or models
according to existing pain points. In the agriculture
sector, for example, we have observed the
growth of vertical farming taking farming to a
new level of precision and productivity with
minimal environmental impact and virtually zero
risk.18 Whilst this transformation is being led by
new players such as AeroFarms, they are taking a
needs-based approach and serving the basic need
of nutrition by applying existing precision farming
technologies to deliver an all-around better-quality
product from colour to texture, quality, flavour,
and of course, environmental impact. Imagine how
this approach can be applied to other essential
needs such as mobility, light, shelter and business.
Altogether, considering innovation in terms of both
technology and the underlying business model will
result in a wider spectrum of climate approaches to
achieve net-zero.
On the following pages we explore the
opportunities – and what leading companies are
already doing – in each area of the climate solution
innovation canvas.

To successfully achieve in driving real climate
innovation, companies should take a holistic
approach to both technology development and the
way they do business, inside and out. Developing
new business applications, revenue models,
value propositions and markets often requires as
much effort, and deserves as much emphasis, as

Breakthrough

THE CLIMATE SOLUTION INNOVATION CANVAS

15

Re-engineer:
The climate transition is quickly changing the context
for most businesses. Those that can successfully
innovate will outperform others and secure long-term
value by moving quickly towards better, accelerated
deployment of existing low carbon solutions.
Customers and investors are embracing companies
that demonstrate viable solutions.
Consider the example of Neste, which has
leveraged technology that can transform fats into
molecules which can replace fossil fuels to help
customers reduce GHG emissions. Neste has
developed renewable fuels for road, air, and marine
transport, as well as for chemicals (including base
oils and plastics).

considered “clean,” the company has earned high
ESG ratings from investors and others. Neste is,
however, also a company that needs to address
significant high-carbon and resource intensive
lock-in challenges as the company currently is
depending on a resource intensive and
wasteful society.

Originally the state oil company of Finland (the
Finnish government continues to own about
35%), Neste set a vision of becoming the world’s
leading producer of renewable diesel in the early
2000s and has transformed its business to make
the transition from oil and gas to renewable fuels.
Neste began production of 100% renewable diesel
in 2010 and has since expanded to three global
production facilities. It owns 1,000 gas stations
in four countries, including Finland’s first lowemission service stations, which feature renewable
diesel and electric vehicle charging. It also offers
GHG emission reduction services to customers
as part of Neste Engineering Solutions. In 2020,
it helped customers reduce GHG emissions by
10 million tons, the equivalent of removing 3.5
million passenger cars from the roads for a full year.
Neste’s ambition for a second wave of growth is to
become a global leader in renewable and circular
solutions. In 2020, Neste RE was launched: a 100%
renewable and recycled raw material for plastics
and chemicals production. This product will enable
tackling climate change through reducing the need
to use virgin fossil resources, while it also provides
a new solution to the end-of-life related challenges
the polymers and chemicals industries are facing
today. Neste hopes to reach the ambitious target to
process annually over 1 million tons of waste plastic
from 2030 onwards.

In a completely different industry, Norwegian
chemicals company Yara is using satellite
technology to help farmers around the world
optimize fertilizer use to maximize yield and
minimize waste and cost. Established in 1905
as Norsk Hydro, the world’s first producer of
mineral nitrogen fertilizers, Yara today offers crop
nutrition products and solutions. In more recent
years, tightening fertilizer regulations globally
have restricted usage and created a need to better
manage usage and efficacy of crop nutrition
products. Consumer pressures for more sustainable
practices in agriculture and food value chains have
added to the push for producers to feed the world
in more responsible ways. In 2008, Yara’s new CEO,
Jørgen Hole Haslestad, declared “The company
has many exciting opportunities to pursue, for
instance when it comes to the environment, where
we contribute to better balance in agricultural
development and deliver some interesting industrial
solutions to environmental problems.”

Neste generated overall revenue growth of 6%
to €15.8 billion in 2019 with renewables revenue
rising 24%. With more than 25% of its revenue

16

Yara’s portfolio of digital farming solutions enables
farmers to increase the yield and quality of their
harvest while reducing environmental impact.
For example, AtFarm allows farmers to monitor
crop growth through satellite images and receive
precision fertilization recommendations from Yara’s
agronomic algorithms. Yaralrix is a precision farming
tool that allows farmers to measure crop nitrogen
requirements in real-time using their smartphones.
Yara Water Solution uses crop sensing technology
to increase nutrient and water use efficiency.

THE NEXT GENERATION OF CLIMATE INNOVATION

From a business point of view, Yara’s embrace of
satellite and digital technology has enabled the
company to drive sales of current crop nutrition
products using data, while also hedging their
bets against further tightening of regulations
by developing new revenue sources from
digital solutions.
A few lessons on climate-inspired business
re-engineering can be drawn from Neste and Yara.
First, climate action should be firmly embedded
in a company’s strategy, purpose and culture.
This goes beyond simply signing pledge. It means
having a plan, making climate action part of the
business, and regularly reviewing progress against
KPIs, just as is done in every function and business
unit. Neste have done this through setting a
vision to become the world’s leading producer
of renewable diesel. This new purpose should
be used to shift perceptions of their external
valuations. Management needs to develop a new

shareholder-value story with clear articulation
about the potential for long-term value in low
carbon businesses. Secondly, companies should
seek to anticipate changes of context, risk and
opportunity, looking ahead to see whether policy
could benefit or hinder their transformation, and
how to capitalise on ongoing action. Yara, for
example, had already developed digital farming
tools which allowed them to quickly adapt.
Thirdly, companies can transform to strengthen
their competitive advantage, by providing
new products, or reaching new customers. To
transform, companies must remember that they
need the right capabilities to succeed, including
innovation-oriented talent and an open approach
to partnerships and coalitions. Finally, even if there
are interesting examples of companies shifting
perspective, significant challenges exist to move
beyond current unsustainable structures where
initial revenues tend to come from systems that are
fundamentally unsustainable.

THE CLIMATE SOLUTION INNOVATION CANVAS

17

Re-boot:
Oft-times, existing constraints thwart new
technologies from reaching their full potential. It takes
an additional innovative solution to break through
barriers or present a new way of solving a problem.
Major climate change-combating technologies such
as battery power and wind-generated electric power
have established their viability in the marketplace but
need a technological assist to move to the next level
of impact.
In 2010, three former Tesla employees recognized
that materials developed using nanotechnologies
could dramatically increase the energy density
of rechargeable lithium-ion batteries and enable
smaller, lighter, longer-lasting electronic devices.
This advance could have a major impact on the
range of electric vehicles and advance mass
adoption of affordable, long-range battery-powered
cars. The resulting company, Sila Nanotechologies,
has developed a silicon-based anode that replaces
graphite in lithium-ion batteries. The new anode
improves the energy density of batteries by 20%,
meaning 20% fewer cells are needed in each
battery pack, and the battery costs 20% less.
Sila products can be dropped into existing
commercial battery manufacturing processes.
Manufacturing partners can produce higher
performing cells in their existing factories on
current production equipment; they do not need
to retool. In addition to electric vehicles, the
improved battery technology has a range of other
applications, including consumer electronics,
electric power storage and transmission, and
electrified flight, all of which have the potential to
accelerate world’s transition to renewable energy.
As a result of strong partnership with Daimler,
BMW and ATL amongst others, Sila was valued at
~$3.3 billion in May 2021.

the ocean’s surface and obviates fixed moorings.
Motion controllers and sensors regulate the turbine
blades in relation to wind speed, intensity, and
direction, to prevent capsizing. Equinor’s floating
wind farm in Hywind, Scotland, the world’s first,
powers some 20,000 British homes. Floating wind
can potentially power up to 12 million homes in
Europe by 2030.
In both of these cases, as in others such as Form
Energy which has developed long duration energy
storage technology that could be a major missing
piece in the clean energy puzzle, the key to the
breakthrough was recognizing a bottleneck or
significant constraint to emerging technologies,
and innovating another new technology to
remove or get around the barrier. The other key
to success in innovation in this space is to use
existing capabilities, experience and know-how;
SILA leveraged their knowledge of EV batteries to
ensure their products can drop into the existing
commercial battery manufacturing process,
and similarly, companies can innovate more
successfully in areas that they hold either direct or
transferable expertise.

A big constraint on wind-generated power is the
construction of wind farms where there is a steady
airstream and limited number of neighbours.
Offshore locations are an attractive solution, but
until recently constructing wind turbines in deep
water settings, where winds blow strongly, was
prohibitively expensive. Enter Equinor, with new
technology that enables wind turbines to float on

THE NEXT GENERATION OF CLIMATE INNOVATION

THE CLIMATE SOLUTION INNOVATION CANVAS

19

Re-Imagine:
Satisfying changing customer demands, particularly
those rooted in evolving views of climate change,
may require re-imagining business models and
services. Take mobility. Before the pandemic hit, many
consumers were already rethinking the concept of
single-car ownership and embracing alternatives that
include renting and ride-sharing as they looked toward
a future of autonomous vehicles and robotaxis.
Tech giants such as Apple and Google have
been piloting autonomous driving, and major
auto OEMs from GM to Volkswagen have been
exploring autonomous vehicle manufacturing and
mobility models. Upstarts turned unicorns, such
as Uber, Lyft, BlaBlaCar, and Grab, were early
mobility movers.
Another unicorn, Didi Chuxing, has pioneered
mobility-as-a-service in China. Founded in 2012
as a taxi-hailing service, Didi rapidly expanded
its portfolio of offerings to encompass AI, big
data, smart city transportation and self-driving
technology. It serves more than 550 million users
across Asia Pacific, Latin America, and Russia and
before the pandemic was completing more than
10 billion passenger trips a year. It’s multimodal
mobility-as-a-service platform attracts more active
users that drive higher utilization rates, which
attracts more active drivers and vehicles through
improved profitability. Ultimately riders experience
a better user experience via reduced wait times
and costs.
Didi offers a full range of app-based transportation
and life services including ride-hailing and vehicle
sharing for taxis, private cars, buses, limousines
and bikes, food delivery and payment services. It’s
ecosystem-based approach accelerates adoption
(the Didi app is embedded into the WeChat
platform, for example) and accelerates innovation.
The company is laying the foundation for the
spread of autonomous, connected and electric
vehicles, as well as smart cities. It is estimated to
have reduced total car trips in China by 1 million a
day, reducing gasoline consumption by 500 million
liters a day and eliminating 13.5 million tons of CO2
emissions a day. In June 2021, Didi raised

20

$4.4 billion in U.S. IPO which resulted in a valuation
of $73 billion on a fully diluted basis.
New models are making a business and climate
change impact in other sectors as well. Indigo
Agriculture offers farmers a package of innovative
services that includes regenerative practices
(data-driven recommendations from agronomists,
patented microbiome seed treatments, and grain
quality testing) and data science, satellite imagery,
and analytics for measuring baseline levels of
carbon in the soil. Terraton incentivizes farmers to
use regenerative farming practices that increase
carbon sequestration. The company has established
partnerships with the Soil Health Institute, Rodale
Institute, and the Ecosystem Services Market
Consortium, among others, to collect data, measure
carbon sequestration and quantify best practices.

California-based Pachama was started by two
technologists from Argentina with the idea of using
the natural strengths of forests to combat climate
change. Pachama leverages two key innovations.
One is using satellite data, artificial intelligence,
and automation to modernize carbon markets by
accurately measuring the carbon forests store in
real time. The company’s AI and remote sensing
platform enables independent verification of
carbon captured in forests, enabling B2C and B2B
customers to measure the impact of their carbon
credit investments. The other is a marketplace
platform that disintermediates middlemen and
makes it much easier for local landowners to
have their results certified and get paid for their
reforestation efforts. Pachama democratizes
its technology by allowing customers to access

the satellite imagery and sensors that provide
information on emissions and carbon captured on
reforested land.
When re-imagining their business, these examples
demonstrate that companies should focus deeply
on the customer need before attempting to provide
solutions; Octopus Energy changed the paradigm
of the retail energy supply business with a deep
commitment to customer centricity and operational
efficiency, which allowed them to provide
renewable energy to so many homes. Companies
should also embrace a service perspective to
re-imagine existing value chains, such as via
market places like those created by Didi Chuxing
and Indigo.

Octopus Energy Group is an energy tech innovator
providing customers easy access to 100%
renewable energy through a cutting-edge digital
platform, known as Kraken, that can pay customers
to use renewable energy during periods when
generation is high, thus avoiding paying higher
costs when renewable supplies are low. The
company has grown rapidly, now serving 1.9 million
homes and 25,000 businesses in the UK alone,
and operates in the USA, Australia, Germany and
Japan. It intends to reach 100 million customers
in multiple countries by 2025. (It has experienced
better than 400% annual growth in its customer
base since 2016.) In addition to a novel technology
platform, Octopus owes a good part of its success
to its customer-centric approach, not always the
norm in the utility industry, which delivers best-inmarket service and experience.

THE NEXT GENERATION OF CLIMATE INNOVATION

THE CLIMATE SOLUTION INNOVATION CANVAS

Invent:
Experts agree that we cannot reach net-zero by 2050
without the help of totally new solutions that offer
significant advances over those currently in use. These
solutions often include deep technologies19 such
as digitalization, new materials, and other scientific
breakthroughs. Innovations based on deep tech can
generate enormous economic value, but their ultimate
impact extends far beyond the financial realm to
everyday life.
They have the potential to fundamentally change
everything from energy, transport, and agriculture
to health, education and entertainment. Deep tech
innovations can satisfy existing needs and create
new models and markets, but incumbents that want
to play will have to be willing to disrupt themselves
before they are disrupted by others.
Consider two examples:
Joyn Bio, a joint venture between Ginkgo Bioworks
and Leaps by Bayer founded in 2017, seeks to
reduce agriculture’s reliance on carbon-intensive
and highly polluting nitrogen fertilizers. Joyn Bio
leverages synthetic biology and gene editing
techniques to engineer nitrogen-fixing microbes
that enable cereal crops to convert nitrogen
from the air into a usable form. The innovation is
made possible by exclusive access to the genetic
codebase and manufacturing capabilities of Ginkgo
Bioworks as well as proprietary microbial strain
library and industry know-how of Bayer.
Joyn’s Bio’s nitrogen fixation solution could
eliminate industrially produced nitrogen fertilizers,
which produce 3% of worldwide GHG emissions,
and remove the need for Haber-Bosch process
facilities that cost about $3 billion each to
construct. The microbial engineering platform

can unlock new climate opportunities to make
agriculture more sustainable and cost effective.
Memphis Meats produces good-tasting and healthy
meat products by harvesting them from cells
instead of animals. Growing demand for meat and
livestock farming that accounts for 15% of GHG
emissions and 25% of earth’s available landmass
and fresh water. Cellular cultivation technology
enables the engineering of real meat without the
need for animals by farming stem cells. This results
in a direct one-to-one substitution for structurally
complex animal meat without added hormones
and antibiotics, providing healthier and safer food.
Eliminating the need to raise and slaughter actual
animals involves significantly lower caloric input,
water, land and energy use than conventional
meat production.
Memphis Meats latest round of funding will enable
it to open a factory in 18 to 24 months. While
cellular cultivation technology is proven to cultivate
edible meat while using up to 90% less land and
water than conventionally produced protein, the
path to commercialization will require collaboration
from a full ecosystem of participants (including
industry, retailers, regulators, and consumers).

Innovation in this space can seem opaque to many
companies, but four characteristics combine to
distinguish deep technologies from other fields
of R&D:

1. They solve
large and fundamental
issues. Most deep tech
ventures contribute
to at least one of
the UN’s sustainable
development goals.

2. They play
at the convergence
of technologies:
Most use at least two
technologies and
two-thirds use more than
one advanced technology.

3. They mostly
develop physical products,
rather than software only.
More than three quarters
of deep tech ventures
are building a
physical product.

4. They are at
the center of a deep
interconnected ecosystem:
some 1,500 universities and
research labs worldwide are
involved in deep tech, and
deep tech ventures received
some 1,500 grants from
governments in
2018 alone.

The biggest challenge for incumbent companies
looking to invent new solutions is developing the
capability to reimagine and rethink problems. As
demonstrated by these case studies, companies can
achieve significant return through direct innovation,
or indirect contribution to it, but must remember
three key learnings for success. Companies
need to embrace science to unlock innovation,
whether by partnering or developing in-house
capabilities. Innovation systems (whether internal
or external, such as labs or incubators) need to
turn their focus from executing existing solutions

to fixing new problems, taking a problem-oriented,
entrepreneurial approach. Finally, companies or
innovation systems will need to source long-term
patient capital from a supporting ecosystem, or
indeed contribute to it. At the moment, Fortune
500 companies devote less than 2%, on average,
of their revenues towards R&D spend.20, 21 This will
need to change if innovation is to contribute to
climate goals.

THE CLIMATE SOLUTION INNOVATION CANVAS

23

Figure 6: 3 lenses with which to identify canvas opportunities:

Who we are
Need in the world

– Acute climate-related threats / frictions
– Changing customer needs / demands
– Shifting competitive environment
– Ecosystem driven pressure to reduce CO2

– Existing assets / expertise / strengths
– Surrounding ecosystem / partnerships
– Entrepreneurial culture & imperative
to innovate
– Sustainability / climate mission

Not all innovation approaches are alike,
there is an approach for everyone:
Incumbents and start-ups are not confined to one
area of innovation: they can – and should – play in
multiple areas at once, or explore opportunities in the
four quadrants of the climate innovation canvas over
time. Different approaches require different effort, risk
tolerance, and capabilities, but what is clear, however,
is that many incumbent corporations will need to pivot
and reinvent themselves to some degree to make
impactful climate action.
While this will entail making difficult decisions and
short-term sacrifices, meaningful climate action
will lay the groundwork for corporations to stay
relevant and profitable in the long term.22 From a
macro point of view, new technologies and business
models can have a much larger impact on achieving
1.5°C pathway but these models and technologies
are not guaranteed and will not replace existing
ones overnight. Individual companies can defend
against competition and hedge their bets by playing
in multiple areas. Understanding the spectrum of
innovation approaches can help executives make
effective choices to design climate action strategies
and roadmaps that reflect their starting position,
overall ambition and competitive advantage. They
should apply three lenses to identify opportunities
(See Figure 6).

The second lens is the company’s own strength
and capabilities. What are its existing assets and
expertise? Can it bring the surrounding ecosystem
or partnerships to bear? Does it have the
entrepreneurial culture and imperative to innovate?
Has it developed a climate mission and a vision for
a sustainable future?
The third lens is its potential for impact. Can it
drive both economic and climate impact? Does it
have the ability to change the game? These are big
questions for any company, but challenges of our
time demand that businesses rise to the occasion.
Those that respond will find ample opportunities
to create substantial value – and reap the rewards
from appreciative investors and customers – in
the process.

The first lens is global human needs: the acute
climate-related threats and how are these affecting
customer needs and demands. How do they
change the competitive environment and drive
pressure on the business ecosystem to reduce
carbon emissions?

Our impact potential

– Potential to drive economic & climate impact
– Ability to unlock holistic value creation
– Opportunity to change the game

Copyright Boston Consulting Group 2020

24

THE NEXT GENERATION OF CLIMATE INNOVATION

THE CLIMATE SOLUTION INNOVATION CANVAS

25

INNOVATION
ACROSS ALL ENABLERS
Apply innovation to all system enablers responsible for
delivering solutions: investment models, ecosystems, policy
frameworks, entrepreneurship

Climate innovation goes well
beyond individual business:
To achieve transformational climate innovation,
innovation is needed everywhere – not just in
technology and business models. There are simply too
many barriers to overcome including, but not limited
to, lack of supportive regulatory frameworks, short
term pressures and investment time horizons, as well
as an overall absence of entrepreneurial ambition and
deep knowledge to solve such fundamentally complex
problems. Overcoming these barriers, moreover
in a timeline needed to achieve net-zero by 2050,
requires innovation across all critical enablers to
climate action, from policy frameworks to investment
models, ecosystem enablement and entrepreneurship.
Companies cannot operate in silos to successfully
support in driving this innovation forward.

THE NEXT GENERATION OF CLIMATE INNOVATION

INNOVATION ACROSS ALL ENABLERS

27

Policy needs to incentivize climate action:

Figure 7: Climate innovation goes well beyond individual businesses
Innovation is needed everywhere, not just in technology and business models

Ecosystem

Policy Frameworks

Develop models that
maximize impact
through cooperation
(e.g. data sharing)

Establish policy framework
that drives highest levels
and pace of innovation

Technology
& Business
Models

$

Entrepreneurship
Create an environment that
encourages opportunities
to be sought and
strengthens ability to act

28

THE NEXT GENERATION OF CLIMATE INNOVATION

The policy change for climate change narrative often
targets carbon pricing as the silver bullet for tackling
our challenges. While carbon pricing is a critical
policy component to get right, it is insufficient as
a standalone.
Indeed, carbon pricing is a flexible and costeffective approach to optimizing existing systems
and mitigating the impacts of climate change,
and many governments, businesses and investors
increasingly attribute a monetary value to climate
risk through jurisdictions and internal carbon
pricing methodologies. However, for carbon pricing
to have maximum impact, it needs to be set at the
right level and uniformly applied. Current pricing
is well below the US$40–80/tCO2e by 2020, and
US$50–100/tCO2e by 2030, that some experts
believe is required to be consistent with meeting
the goals of the Paris Agreement.23 To achieve a
low carbon future, we need to leverage a wider
range of complementary and balanced policy levers
– including not only exerting pressure on carbonintensive products, technologies and practices to
stimulate the transition, but also activating a range
of enabling and incentivizing policies that support
the development of scaling-up innovations which
offer fundamentally different solutions and have
the potential to completely circumvent system lockin problems. This is about not only disincentivizing
climate inaction, but also, more importantly,
incentivizing climate action to achieve system
transformative innovation.

In devising policy frameworks that are capable of
truly changing the world, governments need to be
bold and double down on what we call missiondriven policy. This concept is nicely illustrated by
the US mission to land the first man on moon. The
success of Project Apollo is without doubt one of
the greatest examples of technological success in
history that was made possible through sustained
political support.24 This mission-led “moonshot”
programme required not only innovation in
spaceflight but also innovation in nutrition (food
safety), computing (state-of-the-art control
systems) as well as clothing (insulation).25 Likewise,
the mission to solve military and intelligence
problems during the Cold War resulted in the
invention of the GPS that conveniently optimizes
our route planning today. The takeaway for
policymakers is that mission-driven policy, set with
far-reaching intention, will result in the mobilization
of dedicated resources and approaches to achieve
innovative solutions to our greatest challenges.

Investment Models
Ensure finance is available to
all parties involved in climate
innovation at all stages

INNOVATION ACROSS ALL ENABLERS

29

Figure 8: Object driven policy can achieve significant innovation

The Space Race – 1960’s

Managing America to the moon

GPS – 1973

The Internet – 1983

Solve military and intelligence
problems during the Cold War
Allow computers to communicate
on a single network

Tackling climate change needs to be faced with
the same level of intention and urgency as
these moonshot missions. To achieve success,
governments need to set mission-driven policy,
increasing funding and set up initiatives to boost
climate innovation. Instead of industry-specific
policy that looks to correct for market failures
we need widespread and mission-oriented policy
that looks across industries to solve concrete
technological and societal problems. With only
$22 billion or 0.02% of the global economy spent
on climate change,26 equivalent to the amount
Americans spend on gasoline in a single month,
funding needs to increase at least fivefold to
truly make an impact. Lastly, there needs to be
an integrated and holistic effort to encourage the
highest level of climate innovation – for example,
via centres for climate innovation.
Across the world, governments have activated their
support for climate innovation, albeit to varying
degrees and using different approaches. China has

30

perhaps been most involved. It supports its goals of
achieving carbon neutrality by 2060 with fast rising
R&D spending, including basic and applied research
that is funded mainly by the government. Strong
government direction and support for science
and technology innovation parks have led to
development of technology-focused R&D centers
such as Nanopolis Suzhou, which hosts more than
200 private-investment firms, including numerous
major international venture capital investors, and
more than 300 nanotech companies (as of 2017).
In Europe both the EU and national governments
fund R&D into advanced technologies that
contribute to climate solution innovation. The EU’s
Horizon Europe program involves €26 billion for
basic research, €53 billion for applied research,
and €14 billion to support innovation and startups
from 2021 through 2027. The purpose of the Joint
European Disruptive Initiative (JEDI) is “to bring
Europe in a leadership position in breakthrough
technologies”. To implement its increased climate

THE NEXT GENERATION OF CLIMATE INNOVATION

ambition the Commission presented the first series
of adopted files under the ‘Fit for 55’ package
in July 2021. The package contains legislative
proposals to revise the entire EU 2030 climate
and energy framework, including the legislation
on effort sharing, land use and forestry, renewable
energy, energy efficiency, emission standards
for new cars and vans, emission trading systems
and the Energy Taxation Directive. These stricter
legislation are likely to foster R&D within the
private sector to comply to new regulations. As an
example of ongoing initiatives in Europe at national
level, Germany’s government has agreed on a
national hydrogen strategy to build up industrial
generation facilities with a capacity of 5GW by
2030. Germany will provide €7 billion for the rampup of hydrogen technologies and an additional €2
billion will be invested in setting-up large-scale
hydrogen production plants in partner countries.
Next to that, “Climate Paths 2.0” was co-developed
by BCG, with the Federation of German Industries
(BDI) around 80 companies and associations. It
includes a program proposal of ~20 instruments to
enable sectors to achieve climate targets in 2030
and set a course toward GHG neutrality in 2045.

Infrastructure Bill passed in November 2021, will
also contribute to a positive climate impact. It
includes clean energy and grid-related investments,
the ambition to build a national network of
charging stations for electric vehicles and to expand
access to clean drinking water and investments for
cleaning up Superfund and brownfield sites and
capping orphaned oil and gas wells.
Finally, the Build Better Act, still in Congress,
foresees $555 billion in climate investment to
help get more clean power from the wind and sun,
speed the shift to electric vehicles, and increase
efficiency in homes and workplaces. Even with the
initiatives underway, most governments around the
world can do more to establish policy frameworks
that enable and incentivize climate innovation and
reposition national economies toward value chains
and models that are compatible with a 1.5°C world.
While there are some universal best practices, it is
also key to remember that there is no one-size-fitsall policy, and all policy needs to be thoughtfully
designed based on regional, sectoral and even
cultural characteristics.

The change in administrations in the US is also
bringing increased support for climate change
initiatives. The US historically has looked to the
private sector as the primary driver of innovative
technology, although in May 2020 a bipartisan
group of House and Senate members introduced
the Endless Frontier Act. This act was passed
in June 2021 and commits roughly $250 billion
funding over 5 years for advanced R&D. It will
establish a technology directorate at the National
Science Foundation that would fund fundamental
research in ten key technology areas, including
AI, quantum computing and biotechnology,
genomics, and synthetic biology. Next to this, the

INNOVATION ACROSS ALL ENABLERS

31

It takes an ecosystem:
Climate change is by nature a systemic issue that
requires the collective power of a cross-disciplinary
ecosystem to solve and establish new rules of
engagement. No single stakeholder can provide all
of the capabilities and factors needed on its own
to scale the meaningful transformation to tackle
climate change.
Broad and deep ecosystems involving thousands of
players are already taking shape to combat climate
change, and advance technologies, such as gene
editing, nanotechnology, and quantum computing,
that promise solutions to some of our biggest social
and economic challenges (See Figure 9). These
ecosystems encompass not only corporates, but
investors, start-ups, governments, universities,
research institutions and other facilitators, and each
type of participant has a distinct and important
role to play in accelerating the speed and scale of
change needed to amplify climate impact:
1.

Incumbents possess the deep industry knowledge, technical and commercial

Figure 9: Ecosystem action can accelerate the speed and scale of change needed to amplify climate impact:
Ecosystems overcome barriers via collaboration and risk sharing mechanisms

Ability to overcome
technical, economic or other
structural barriers that come
with long-term technology
development via polling
resources and investment

Ecosystem action can
generate demand signal
through joint pledges, kick
starting a competitive
playing field needed for
other companies to
take action

Coalitions can coordinate
support for more ambitious
climate policies and build
pressure for emission
reductions

IP, research, tech, talent

Investing in
basic research,
setting the right
environment to
foster innovation

capabilities and scale to pilot new solutions and drive demand

Universities
& Research
Centres

Technology
integration,
industrial &
commercial
capabilities

Governments
& Public
Institutions

Corporations

Ventures &
Start-ups

Facilitators

2. Innovators have the raw entrepreneurial ambition as well as the agility and
speed to find new product-market fit
3. Investors provide the capital, network as well as the tools and processes to
support innovators in validating and scaling their ventures more quickly
4. Academia brings the cutting-edge research, technology, IP and talent to make
new solutions technically feasible
5.

Governments set the right policies to foster an environment that supports

Agility & speed to
quickly find new
product/market fit

Local &
international
connection,
mentoring and
facilities

Investors

ground-up innovation and can also provide direct investments
for R&D
Since ecosystems are ultimately collaborative
organisms, a big part of the challenge for each
player is find the way in which it can best contribute
to, and profit from, its participation. Moreover, each
player has to be willing to involve stakeholders that
they are traditionally not used to collaborating with.

Capital, business
guidance, network

Source: World Economic Forum: The Net Zero Challenge: Fast-Forward to Decisive Climate Action; BCG Analysis

32

THE NEXT GENERATION OF CLIMATE INNOVATION

INNOVATION ACROSS ALL ENABLERS

33

Investors need to take a longer-term horizon:

A climate opportunity innovation approach provides
an opportunity for the fashion and apparel sector
to redefine itself beyond improved materials and
recycling of low-quality clothing. In a sector that
has been driven by shorter and shorter fashion
cycles and marketing, customers are “depowered”
rather than empowered. This is especially true
for younger consumers, as by linking increased
consumption to the increase of self-worth a
tension is created with empowered individuals
who embrace sustainable lifestyles.28

We identified more than 75 funds that are
already taking a variety of approaches to climate
investment, including focusing on general climate
technology, high-impact technology, vertical
technology, and deep technologies (see Figure
12).31 But all this money is still fraction of the
estimated $1.5 trillion in private equity and venture
capital that was available in 2020.

Figure 11: Venture capital investment climate tech is growing at 5x average growth rate across all industries

~49

However, instead of only looking at the fashion
industry as a problem, a climate opportunity
innovation approach can turn the need for
sustainable lifestyles to an opportunity.
Acknowledging the full effect from the apparel
industry (Figure 10 below) it becomes obvious
that the material and recycling is just small part
of the impact. In order to assess the full impact
the volume produced and the lifestyle promoted/
enabled must be part of the equation. Exploring
how the need for sustainable lifestyles can be
a business opportunity is something leading
companies like Houdini and Patagonia are already
exploring with a climate opportunity innovation
approach, but with a climate risk innovation
approach the innovation will continue to be limited
to material and circularity initiatives.29, 30

Expected
Q4 2021

Let’s take disruption in the fashion industry as an
example to highlight the importance of collective
ecosystem action. The opportunity for climate
tech to disrupt the fashion industry is huge: 20%
of global freshwater pollution is caused by the
dyeing process of textile, 1.2 Gt CO2 is released
in the atmosphere by the fast fashion industry
and 80% of textile waste could be avoided at
the knitting or weaving stage but there is a ~$25
billion USD investment gap per year required
to finance a step change in sustainability. To
achieve innovation at scale, it requires collective
action from all stakeholders to overcome critical
barriers (see Figure 10). This includes: facilitators
nurturing targeted industry consortium’s to
address misaligned incentives between brands and
manufacturers, brands to strengthen their advocacy
and support for sustainability to create awareness
for the opportunity, supply chain partners to forge

partnerships with innovators to help provide a more
structured pathway for them to succeed, start-ups
to create more targeted use cases and practical
implementation plans to help brands understand
and ultimately support breakthrough innovations,
investors to mobilize more patient capital to help
innovators compete with commoditized prices
of existing solutions and the public sector to
strengthen policy framework to drive systemic
change and catalyse more investment.

+188%

17

+34%

17
32

Q1-Q3 2021

A winning climate innovation ecosystem requires
that participants have shared vision with aligned
short and long-term goals, know-how to help
advance a particular technology or market, and
the capability to develop a full circle view of
each stakeholders’ priorities. Ecosystem action
can support climate innovation in overcoming
the significant technical, economic and structure
barriers that often come with long-term technology
development, via collaborations across value
chains or industry peers, for example. Through
this collaboration, they can establish sharing
mechanisms to spread risk that would otherwise
be too high for single companies to bear alone.
They can generate a demand signal through joint
pledges, kickstarting a competitive playing field
needed for other companies to take action and they
can also help garner the support for more ambitious
climate policies, building greater societal pressure
for emission reductions.27

Venture capital investment in climate technology is
growing five times faster than the average rate of
investment across all industries. Climate investment
soared from $418 million in 2013 to $17 billion
in 2020.

4

2015

2021

2020

Figure 10: Full impact of fashion/apparel companies

30+ Green Unicorns Valued >$1 Billion

1
34

The
product
itself

2

Volume Produced

2.1 Customer wardrobe size
2.2 Time products are used
2.3 Never used clothing

3

THE NEXT GENERATION OF CLIMATE INNOVATION

Lifestyle the
company is enabling
or promoting

Total impact

– Octopus Energy

– Pivot Bio

– OVO

– Grove

– Beyond Meat

– SILA
Nanotechnologies

– Apeel

– Plenty

– Tesla

– Redwood
Materials

– Impossible
– Northvolt

– Arrival

INNOVATION ACROSS ALL ENABLERS

35

Figure 12: Recent large deals in climate tech

Company

Description

Funding Date

Funding Amount

Post Valuation

Northvolt

Lithium-ion battery for EV

09-06-21

2,750

11,750

Rivian

Electric vehicle manufacturer

19-01-21

2,650

27,600

SVOLT

Lithium-ion battery for EV

30-07-21

1,586

5,589

Weltmeister

Electric vehicle manufacturer

09-09-20

1,470

Redwood Materials

Sustainable battery technology

18-08-21

777

Enovate Materials

Electric vehicle manufacturer

13-10-20

736

Leapmotor

Electric vehicle manufacturer

12-07-21

696

Didi Bike

Bike sharing platform

19-02-21

600

SILA Nanotechnologies

Battery technology for EV

07-01-21

590

3,300

Li Auto

Electric vehicle manufacturer

24-06-20

550

4,050

Indigo Agriculture

Microbiomes to improve crop yield

22-06-20

535

2,755

Guangzhou Ziaopeng
Motors Technology

Electric vehicle manufacturer

20-07-20

500

Swell (Energy Storage)

Solar energy, storage and VPP

10-12-20

450

BETA Technologies

Electric planes

24-05-21

426

The various segments of the investment community
can do more. Venture capital funds, and their
limited partners, can expand their comfort zones
to adopt the kind of problem-focused approach
taken by most climate innovation ventures. For
example, Flagship Pioneering applies a hypothesisdriven innovation processes based on existing
technologies to imagine products or reimagine
value chains. It helped start or nurture more than
100 scientific ventures, resulting in over $34 billion
in aggregate value.
Deep tech investors also need to reset their
expectations – which does not necessarily mean
accepting lower returns. They can extend fund
lifetimes to allow sufficient time for R&D to be
de-risked and the resulting products to launch.
They can recognize the greater complexity of
technology and business models involved and
spread their investments across technologies and
sectors. They will also need to fill gaps in skills and
understanding of technology by building inhouse
expertise & networks. For example, Breakthrough
Energy Ventures is a fund with a 20 year time
horizon backed by Bill Gates and other notable
limited partners, including Xavier Niel, Jeff Bezos,

36

3,777

1,458

Jack Ma, Masayoshi Son, Richard Branson, Michael
Bloomberg, and Vinod Khosla. It was created in
2016 and after having backed 45 startups with it’s
first billion dollars, it raised another billion dollars
to pursue this mission. About 90% of its portfolio
consists of deep tech ventures geared toward
climate change or sustainability goals.
More funds are combining investment with active
support and assistance. SOSV, which invests in
about 150 new startups a year, has an accelerator
programs that includes a network of 1,000 global
mentors and an alumni community of more than
2,000 founders around the globe who have deep
market and technical expertise. The program
provides access to an extensive infrastructure of
laboratory and maker spaces, and SOSV introduces
start-ups to sector-specific corporate partnerships
and later stage venture firms focused on the
same verticals.
For their part, private equity firms can emphasize
the SDG impact of climate tech ventures to their
investors and the companies that they invest in.
Blackrock’s CEO, Larry Fink, took a big step in this
direction when he wrote to company CEOs in 2020

THE NEXT GENERATION OF CLIMATE INNOVATION

that “Climate change has become a defining factor
in companies’ long-term prospects.” Private equity
managers can de-risk their portfolios with ventures
that will inevitably disrupt incumbents and shift or
create new value pools. They can also fill gaps in
skills and understanding of technology by building
in-house expertise & networks. Sweden’s EQT
Partners, for example, describes itself as “a purpose
driven global investment organization” that has
“decided to align all investment decisions in support
of achieving the United Nations Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs) as well as ownership
actions to drive the development of the portfolio
companies in this direction.”
Public equity and debt managers will also have a
part to play, as once technology and market risks
have been overcome, climate tech can shift from
equity-based financing to debt, enabling greater
capital firepower. Public equity could already take
on greater risk in investing in climate tech, driven
by environmental and societal good, but in the
future the potential for ‘safer’ investment will be
ever greater. Even today, Generation Investment
has worked to overcome risk by adopting an
approach based on a decision-making process that
fully integrates sustainability analysis and a focus
on long-term performance, allowing for significant
investment into this space.

the greatest chance of success, the ideal investor
archetype would build deep technical capabilities
through multi-disciplinary teams, including
scientists and environmental regulators. This talent
would then help set KPIs that were appropriate
for the specific circumstances of deep tech climate
ventures, circumstances which include higher
barriers to market entry and complex climate issues.
This investor archetype requires support from key
stakeholders along the venturing and financing
journey. Governments and institutions would be
needed to provide or incentivise R&D funding,
innovation hubs and talent production, and would,
perhaps only initially, need to subsidise industry
segments to give these investors the greatest
possible chance for success. Private equity firms,
pension funds and sovereign wealth funds across
the market would need to provide support in
de-rising the market and supporting growth and
scale, including catalysing future M&A trends.
Corporates would also need to provide support by
committing to greater climate tech investment so
that they can act as an accelerator for go-to-market
and partnerships.

These examples all show the potential for a new
investor archetype for climate technology, which
draws upon the successes of pioneers in this space.
The ideal investor archetype would bridge the gap
between traditional venture capital and private
equity, and have a longer fund lifetime, stretching
from around 15 to 20 years, to provide sufficient
time to de-risk R&D and launch products. This
would also require a goal and returns narrative
that focuses more on longterm value creation
across a broad range of stakeholders than on
short-term cashflows and immediate returns. The
stakeholders involved would need to be involved
in a mixed shareholding structure to generate the
greatest buy-in across the ecosystem, combining
governments, funds, and corporates, and the
archetype would need more flexible financing
vehicles, such as rolling funds or SPACs. To achieve

INNOVATION ACROSS ALL ENABLERS

37

Figure 13: But it requires a change in mindset...

Entrepreneurs will lead the charge:
Climate innovation will be led primarily by
entrepreneurs, whether within existing companies or
externally. This means that corporates have a major
role to play in fostering entrepreneurship and can reap
the benefits of this in return.
To encourage entrepreneurship and innovation
internally, corporates can use four key techniques.
Firstly, they can embed climate purpose into their
core mission and ensure leadership is bought-in,
meaning those with entrepreneurial ideas in
this space feel that their company’s purpose
will support them to develop their innovations.
Secondly, corporates can invest into long-term
R&D to enable a greater understanding of scientific
and engineering breakthroughs and begin to
build their own climate solutions. Thirdly, they
can revisit fundamental problems and customer
needs to arrive at new solutions and value pools,
such as looking again at the customer journey and
developing climate friendly solutions to existing
pain points. Finally, corporates can foster internal
entrepreneurship by creating programs or events
that bring companies closer to the start-up
and academic environment, such as creating
accelerators, or speaker sessions.
Corporates can also capitalise on the opportunities
presented by fostering external entrepreneurship.
This could involve playing a strategic role in
supporting entrepreneurs enter traditional
industries with high barriers to entry, such as in
the energy sector, or providing commercial knowhow, deep market knowledge and ecosystem
networks to test, adopt and scale new solutions. By
supporting external entrepreneurs, corporates may
get access to vital knowledge and expertise, or reap
more direct financial benefits. Corporates could
also develop more formal and proactive models
of engagement to invest, incubate and partner
during earlier development stages via tools such as
innovation grants, business alliances, partnerships,
accelerators, or direct investments. These models
can also provide companies with clear rewards for
their role in fostering entrepreneurship.

38

For corporates and other organisations, however,
this will likely require a shift in mindset. Firstly,
thinking must change from ‘problem-first’ to
‘needs-first’. Where before organisations may have
started with a problem, then tried to reduce it,
they will now need to start with a clear need (in
this case limiting global warming to 1.5ºC), and
then search for compatible solutions. It will also
need a transformation from trying to use existing
solutions and strengths, towards new option
spaces, technologies and scientific advances to
unlock previously nonexistent value. Secondly,
organisations will need to use design thinking to
find the product market fit. This may involve a
Design, Build, Test and Learn process driven by new
economics at each stage of innovation to reduce
prototyping cost and time as well as technological
and market risk. Finally, organisations should shift
their mindset from the perspective that climate
considerations hinder progress and limit growth,
to the recognition that by widening the opportunity
space companies can create value and advantage
by solving for climate needs.

THE NEXT GENERATION OF CLIMATE INNOVATION

Companies can widen the
opportunity space to create
value and advantage by
solving for climate needs

Changing context / climate
limitations are narrowing the
space for “business as usual”

GHG Emissions

e

g th
nin
ide ace
w
ons ty sp
Acti rtuni
o
opp

Fac
t
opp ors na
r
ort
uni rowin
g
ty s
pac the
e

Innovate
to turn
climate in
to an
advantage

$
Financial “loss”

Sustainable thinking

Climate repair

Collaboration

Policy barriers
Regeneration

Growth restricted
by negative
climate impacts

New growth by
creating climate
benefits
Time

INNOVATION ACROSS ALL ENABLERS

39

CONCLUSIONS
AND ACTIONS
Climate innovation is an opportunity to build a
long-term advantage

Recommendations:
Until now, many companies, governments and
investors have seen climate actions and considerations
as a hindrance; meeting targets may limit their growth,
increase costs and see them fall behind competitors.
However, evidence of climate innovation across the
ecosystem has demonstrated that climate innovation
should in fact be seen as a major opportunity to build
longterm success and advantage. This can be done in
two crucial ways. Firstly, organisations should shift
their mindset to view climate action as an opportunity.
Climate innovation can bring new offers, revenues,
and solutions to address real needs. Secondly,
organisations should not wait to act, and should
consider that taking climate action will provide first
move advantage, as demonstrated by the success of
climate ventures so far.
This will mean something different for three different
types of entities – businesses, investors and
governments – who must act in concert to achieve
decisive climate action.

THE NEXT GENERATION OF CLIMATE INNOVATION

CONCLUSIONS AND ACTIONS

41

Climate innovation is an opportunity to build a long-term advantage

1

Shift mindset to look at climate
action as an opportunity:
new solutions revenues,
addressing real needs

Move from first move
disadvantage to first
move advantage

2

Businesses should expand their innovation
approach to capitalise on opportunities
Businesses will need a mindset shift, seeing climate
action as an opportunity rather than a limiting
factor. By encouraging both internal and external
entrepreneurship, corporates will be able to reap the
rewards of climate action, rather than feel stymied
by climate considerations. Initially, businesses should
expand the innovation scope for 1.5ºC compatible
action, using the Climate Solution Innovation
Matrix to identify current and future innovation
opportunities, and using the expanded scope to
encourage internal entrepreneurship.

Business:
– Expand the innovation scope
– Assess opportunities to innovate core 		
business model, with a climate lens
– Invest in and incubate ventures with new 		
1.5ºC compatible solutions
– Embrace deep tech approach to move at a
larger and faster pace

Investors:
– Advocate to understand/
minimise all climate risks
– Focus on 1.5ºC LED 		
compatible measurable 		
result in society
– Setup/refocus VC funds 		
toward breakthrough/deep
tech and business model 		
climate innovation
– Setup/refocus long-term
capital arms to capture 		
opportunities to
grow/transform business 		
with a climate lens

Government:

For example, by placing bets in all quadrants
of the matrix, IKEA is both creating long-term
opportunity and fostering innovation across the
board. Businesses could also use this opportunity
to assess whether there are ways to innovate their
core business model. This may include leveraging
the Climate Solution Innovation Canvas to assess
how customer needs can be met in climate positive
ways, and will result in innovation to remove any
pain points. Businesses should embrace the deep
tech approach to move at a larger and faster pace,
scanning regularly for exponential technologies
to enable deep tech innovation. VINCI has
used this approach, putting initiatives in place
to fast track entrepreneurship, identify growth
opportunities and support the scale up of new
technologies. Finally, businesses can foster external
entrepreneurship, by investing in, incubating
and scaling ventures with new 1.5ºC compatible
solutions. ABB, for example, fosters open
innovation with an accelerator program, enabling
entrepreneurial start-ups to access its expertise,
network & facilities.

– Implement a policy framework that enables needs
based climate innovation with complementary
incentives
– Establish mission-driven policies to solve
climate challenges
– Mobilize resources & approaches to boost
climate innovation
– Re-position economy toward value chains and
models that are compatible with a 1.5ºC world

42

THE NEXT GENERATION OF CLIMATE INNOVATION

CONCLUSIONS AND ACTIONS

43

Investors should view climate innovation
investment as an opportunity for growth:
There is a great opportunity for investors to
see notable returns both short-term, but more
significantly, over a longer timeframe. It will require
decisive action from investors to capitalise on
this opportunity.
Firstly, investors should advocate to understand
and minimise climate risk, such as committing
to reporting ESG and climate risks via industryrecognised bodies such as the TCFD. Blackrock is
an investor who is already utilising this approach,
integrating ESG into every investment practice, and
working hard to increase transparency. Investors
should also seek to ensure 1.5ºC LED compatible
measurable results in society, by moving beyond
carbon content in portfolios and greening of
instruments towards impacts on society. This
may include MI’s NCI leading methodology for
the assessment of avoided emissions and 1.5°C
compatibility. Next, investors should refocus
their capital arms to capture opportunities to
grow or transform businesses, using the Climate

Solution Innovation Matrix to assess where to
focus capabilities and investments. EQT has
adopted this approach, explicitly building their
investment philosophy around a dual mandate of
creating financial returns alongside climate impact.
Finally, investors should use owner directives
to support a shift towards solution innovation
via clear targets and reporting following the
Climate Solution Innovation Matrix & Canvas. For
example, Formica Capital has been exploring owner
directives with the requirement of reporting and
targets for positive societal impact. These actions
will provide investors with new opportunities for
growth and contribute to the wider ecosystem of
climate innovation.

Governments should change policy to
present opportunities from climate action:
Governments should play a key role in shifting the
mindset towards climate innovation by adjusting
policy frameworks to encourage and incentivise action
across the ecosystem.
Firstly, governments should implement a policy
framework that enables needs-based climate
innovation with complementary incentives. This
could be done by leveraging the Climate Solution
Innovation Matrix for regulations to incentivise
systemic transformative action, beyond carbon
pricing, as seen in the EU, for example, where the
EU Green Deal implements a comprehensive set
of needs-based policy instruments, with the goal
to make EU an exporter of low carbon solutions.
Next, governments should shift from industryspecific policies to mission-driven policies to solve
climate challenges, which could result in a plethora
of indirect but related technological advancements.
Governments should also mobilise resources &
approaches to boost climate innovation, including

THE NEXT GENERATION OF CLIMATE INNOVATION

increasing R&D funding, creating innovation hubs
and bosting capabilities. In China, for example, the
government supports its 2060 net-zero goal with
strong support including substantial R&D funding
and tech innovation parks linked to an export
strategy. Finally, governments should adjust policy
to re-position the economy toward value chains
and models that are compatible with a 1.5ºC world,
using policies such as subsidies to support potential
“green champions” in all quadrants of the climate
solution canvas. This has been well-demonstrated
by Germany, where the government has agreed on
a national hydrogen strategy to build up industrial
generation facilities with a capacity of 5GW
by 2030.

CONCLUSIONS AND ACTIONS

45

Entities across the ecosystem:
The benefits of a concerted effort for individual
organisations are clear: an ecosystem gives
organisations the ability to overcome technical,
economic, or other structural barriers that come
with long-term technology development via pooling
resources and investment; ecosystem action can
generate a demand signal through joint pledges, and
kickstart the competitive playing field needed for
other companies to take action; and coalitions can
coordinate support for more ambitious climate policies
and build pressure for emission reductions.
To reap these benefits, organisations will need
to work together. Specific actions to do this may
include partnering with similarly climate-ambitious
organisations, creating joint pledges, or forming
coalitions across governments, businesses,
and investors.
Although even acting alone will present significant
opportunities for organisations, for solutions to
truly impact our climate, the entire ecosystem
will need to work in concert, and at speed. The

global response to the COVID-19 pandemic has
shown how quickly and forcefully we can move
when called to effective action. Few would have
predicted a year ago that discovering, developing,
and bringing to market not just one but multiple
vaccines in fewer than 12 months was remotely
achievable. By harnessing the power of science
and advanced technology, entrepreneurship, smart
policy, investment and the collaborative efforts of
the ecosystem, we proved that radical progress
is possible.

Climate solution innovation is no less urgent. And
it offers an enormous opportunity to build economic
models and individual company advantage for the long
term. Businesses, investors, and governments all need
to act now.

46

THE NEXT GENERATION OF CLIMATE INNOVATION

CONCLUSIONS AND ACTIONS

REFERENCES AND SOURCES
External Sources:

Business references:
Re-engineer:
1.

Neste: Pivot to renewable fuels and chemicals

5.

SK batteries: Big bet in climate tech

2.

Yara: Digital farming solutions

6.

China solar PVs: Big bet in climate tech

3.

Tata Energy: Setting up renewable microgrid
network

7.

Pivot Bio: Nature co-design: ammonia

8.
4.

Schneider Electric: Digital energy mgmt. platform

C16 Biosciences: Nature co-design: palm oil
alternative

Re-boot:

9.

Geltor: Nature co-design: collagen production

1.

SILA Nanotechnologies: Engineer materials to
improve lithium-ion battery technology

Input from multiple interviews:

2.

Equinor: Floating off-shore wind technology

3.

Form Energy: Ultra-low-cost, long-duration
renewable energy storage

1.

Tata Energy: Set-up of a renewable
microgrid network’

2.

Yara/AtFarm: Digital farming solutions

3.

Indigo AG: Terraton carbon marketplace

4.

LafargeHolcim: Net-zero construction and
materials

5.

Gingko Bioworks: Nature co-design; supported in
C-19 vaccine

6.

Breakthrough Energy: Supply-side tech innovation

7.

EQT: Input to investor climate innovation

8.

Mission Possible: Setup of horizontal cross-sector
initiative

1.

SBMI: The Quest for Sustainable Business Model
Innovation, BCG, Mar 2020

2.

SBMI: Winning the ‘20s: Optimize for Social &
Business Value, BCG, Jun 2019

3.

SBMI: Building Competitive Advantage in a
Sustainable World, BCG, Aug 2020

4.

SBMI: Why the New Competitive Advantage
Demand Sustainability, BCG, Oct 2020

5.

6.

Case for Action: The Net-zero Challenge: FastForward to Decisive Climate Action, WE, Jan 2020

7.

Tech: Fit For Net-Zero: 55 Tech Quests to
accelerate Europe’s recovery and pave the way to
climate neutrality, Capgemini, Oct 2020

Re-imagine:
1.

Didi Chuxing: Leading the revolution in
transportation and automotive technology

2.

Indigo AG: Terraton carbon marketplace

3.

Octopus Energy: Digital platform to provide easy
access to 100% renewable energy

4.

Pachama: AI to protect ecosystems, restore forests
and modernize carbon market

Invent:
9.
1.

Memphis Meats: Cell based meat

2.

Joyn Bio: Nature co-design: ammonia

3.

Commonwealth Fusion Systems:
Commercialization of fusion energy

4.

Climeworks: Direct air capture (DAC) and storage

Strategyzer: Frameworks for business innovation

10. Gates Ventures: Approach to energy breakthrough
innovation
11. UK Gov – BEIS: Energy Innovation Fund

Climate Innovation: Mission Innovation
Framework Documents: Modules 1,2 and 3,
Mission Innovation

8.

9.

Tech: The State of Climate Tech 2020: The next
frontier of venture capital, PWC, Sep 2020
Companies & Tech: Tough Tech: We can fix it –
The founders, investors corporations and policies
helping solve climate change , The Engine, MIT,
Fall 2020

10. Policy: The Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial
Revolution, HM Government, Nov 2020
11. Policy: Why carbon pricing is not sufficient to
mitigate climate change—and how “sustainability
transition policy” can help, PNAS Opinion, Apr
2020
12. Policy: Here’s how the US government can lead
the word on climate change innovation, Gates
Notes, Dec 2020
13. Policy: Korea’s Green Growth Experience:
Outcomes, Policy and Lessons Learned, Global
Green Growth Institute, 2015

14. Policy: How COVID-19 Is Changing the Pace of
Energy Transitions, BCG, Sep 2020
15. Investment Models: A running list of Climate Tech
VCs, Climate Tech VC, Nov 2020
16. Investment Models: Draft 2025 Target Setting
Protocol: U.N.-convened net-zero asset owner
alliance, PRI, Finance UNEP Initiative, WWF,
M2020, Oct 2020
17. Finance Sector: Our Planet: Too Big To Fail, WWF,
2019
18. Corporates: The role of business in climate change,
FT, Dec 2020
19. Sustainable Companies: Who Are The 100 Most
Sustainable Companies Of 2020?, Forbes, Jan
2020
20. Startups: Top VCs name the 46 climate-tech
startups to watch in 2021, Business Insider, Jan
2021
21. Corporates: What will it take for the 75% of
companies that don’t have climate commitments
to step up?, Fast Company, April 2020
22. Innovation: Lessons from Tesla’s Approach to
Innovation, HBR, Feb 2020
23. Innovation: IKEA: Making a $40 Billion Company
Climate Positive, HBR, Dec 2020
24. Corporates: Leading a New Era of Climate Action,
HBR, Jan 2020
25. Corporates: Tough Business Questions About the
Climate Crisis, HBR, Jan 2020
26. Corporates: What Do People Really Believe About
Climate Change?, HBR, Jan 2020
27. Corporates: Your Company’s Next Leader on
Climate Is…the CFO, HBR, Jan 2020

ENDNOTES
28. Circular Models: The New Business of Garbage,
HBR, Jan 2020

42. Policy: To change the world, governments need to
launch new moonshots, Wired, Jul 2019

29. Corporates: A Better Way to Talk About the
Climate Crisis, HBR, Jan 2020

43. R&D: What the top innovators get right, PwC,
Strategy&, Oct 2018

30. Corporates: Is Your Trade Group Blocking Climate
Action?, HBR, Jan 2020

44. Policy: FACT SHEET: President Biden Sets 2030
Greenhouse Gas Pollution Reduction Target Aimed
at Creating Good-Paying Union Jobs and Securing
U.S. Leadership on Clean Energy Technologies, The
White House, Apr 2021

31. Innovation: Fermentation can help build a more
efficient and sustainable food system – here’s how,
WEF, Nov 2020
32. Innovation, Rethinking Food and Agriculture 20202030, Rethinkx, Sep 2019
33. Innovation: European truckmakers to phase out
diesel sales decade earlier than planned, FT, Dec
2020
34. ESG Investing: Companies That Fail to Measure
Impact Will Be Left Behind, This Investor Warns,
Barrons, Nov 2020
35. Finance Sector: A Fundamental Reshaping of
Finance, Blackrock, Jan 2020
36. Finance Sector: Blackrock 2021 Stewardship
Expectations, Blackrock, Dec 2020
37. Reporting: Sustainability Reporting: Convergence
to Accelerate Progress, Blackrock, Oct 2020

45. Investment Models: Climate-Tech VC Investing
Tops $17bn in 2020, Bloomberg NEF, Mar 2021
46. Investment Models: Why investors are raising
climate tech funds at a torrid pace, Pitchbook, July
2021
47. R&D: The Cost of Sequencing a Human Genome,
National Human Genome Research Institute, Nov
2021
48. Corporates: Neste’s renewable products helped
customers to reduce greenhouse gas emissions
globally by 10 million tons in 2020, Neste, Feb
2021
49. Corporates: Neste RE enables a future where all
plastic products can be made of renewable and
recycled materials – and the future starts today,
Neste, Nov 2020

1.

https://unfccc.int/topics/un-climate-changeglobal-innovation-hub

20. https://www.strategy-business.com/feature/whatthe-top-innovators-get-right

2.

https://media-publications.bcg.com/bcgexecutive-perspectives-inside-cop26-kickstartingdecade-of-delivery.pdf

21. https://www.ideatovalue.com/inno/

3.

http://mission-innovation.net/

4.

https://unfccc.int/climate-action/race-to-zerocampaign

5.

https://www.ipcc.ch/sr15/

6.

https://www.ipcc.ch/sr15/chapter/spm/

7.

https://ceiic.socialalpha.org

8.

https://www.misolutionframework.net/pdf/reportincubators_accelerating_1_5c_climate_compatible_
start-ups_with_picu.pdf

9.

https://netpositive.world/

10. https://icca-chem.org/wpcontent/

uploads/2020/05/addressing-the-avoidedemissions-challenge.pdf
11. https://gesi.org/research/smarter2030-

ictsolutions- for-21st-century-challenges
12. https://www.unepfi.org/wordpress/wp-content/
uploads/2021/10/aoa-progress-report-2021.pdf
13. https://www.skygroup.sky/article/behaviourchange-on-climate-can-be-driven-by-tvsays-sky
, https://www.purposedisruptors.org/advertisedemissions
14. https://climatesmart.citieschallenge.org/

38. Reporting: Task Force on Climate-related Financial
Disclosures Forward-Looking Financial Sector:
Metrics Consultation, TCFD, Oct 2020
39. Fossil Fuel Financing: Banking on Climate Change
– Fossil Fuel Finance Report Card 2020, BankTrack,
Mar 2020
40. Policy: Special Report: Global Warming of 1.5°C,
IPCCC, Mar 2020
41. Innovation: Vinci in a Nutshell: Innovation For A
Sustainable World, Vinci, Jun 2018

50. Corporates: CNBC DISRUPTOR 50- 34. Sila
Nanotechnologies, CNBC, May 2021
51. Investment Models: China’s Didi raises $4.4 bln in
upsized U.S. IPO, Reuters, Jun 2021
52. Policy: House Passes Historic Climate Action in
Build Back Better Act, NRDC, Nov 2021
53. Investment Models: Bill Gates-Led Fund Raises
Another $1 Billion to Invest in Clean Tech,
Bloomberg, Jan 2021

15. https://www.bcg.com/en-us/publications/2020/
how-china-can-achieve-carbon-neutralityby-2060
16. https://hbr.org/2019/12/real-innovation-requiresmore-than-an-rd-budget
17. https://orsted.co.uk/about-us/worlds-mostsustainable-energy-company
18. https://www.aerofarms.com/
19. https://www.bcg.com/capabilities/digitaltechnology-data/emerging-technologies/deeptech

nickskillicorn/2019/08/top-1000-companies-thatspend-the-most-on-research-development-chartsand-analysis/#fortune500
22. https://hbr.org/2020/01/the-new-business-ofgarbage?ab=seriesnav-bigidea
23. https://www.cdp.net/en/climate/carbon-pricing
24. https://history.nasa.gov/sp-4219/chapter8.html
25. https://www.wired.co.uk/article/governmentmoonshots
26. https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/heres-how-uscan-lead-world-climate-change-innovation-billgates/
27. https://www.weforum.org/reports/the-net-zerochallenge-fast-forward-to-decisive-climate-action
28. https://www.businessinsider.com/hm-ceo-climateactivism-threat-to-fast-fashion-bloomberg-201910?r=US&IR=T
29. https://api.houdinisportswear.com/storage/
Houdini_Regenerative-Lifestyles-Halfearth-1_0.
pdf
30. https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/
abs/pii/S1066793800800640
31. https://climatetechvc.substack.com/p/-a-runninglist-of-climate-tech-vcs

mission-innovation.net

misolutionframework.net

Dennis Pamlin
Head, Mission Innovations, Net-Zero
Compatible Innovations Initiative

Jay Hennessy
Senior Project Leader, Mission Innovations, NetZero Compatible Innovations Initiative

Jakob Dahlgyist
Project Leader, Mission Innovations, Net-Zero
Compatible Innovations Initiative

Andreas Johansson
Thought-leader support, Mission Innovations NetZero Compatible Innovations Initiative

bcg.com/en-gb/
Marco Duso
Partner, London

Jesper Nielsen
MD & Senior Partner, London

– Founding team of BCG Green Ventures, leading in
– UK and Europe
– Extensive experience in climate tech
– WEF Fellow, Climate Action

– Leads BCG Climate & Sustainability in Europe,
– Middle East, Africa , South America

Kanika Chandaria
Venture Architect Lead, London

Cornelius Pieper
MD & Partner, Boston

– Founding team and acting COO of BCG Green
– Ventures

– Founder BCG Centre for Climate Action,
– supporting clients with transition to a low– carbon economy

Raju Sarma
MD & Partner, Manhattan Beach

Michel Fredau
MD & Senior Partner, Paris

– Leads BCG Green Ventures globally
– Part of original BCG Digital Ventures
– founding team

– Global head of climate & environment

February 2022